19 for 2019
===========
:date: 01-01-2019
:tags: experiences
:category: Experiences
:slug: 19-for-2019
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: pinky-promise.jpg

.. role:: strike
    :class: strike

Happy New Year! I usually *hate* new years: the 'happy' part of winter is over,
and ahead of us is 3 months of cold wet dark miserable. But this year I'm
excited to get back to work, and excited about the year that just ended and the
year to come. I'm not sure if it's because I live with Eli now, or because we
have Hawaii coming up in mid-February, or because I've hit a groove in my job
and am ready to hit the ground running. I think part of it too is that this
vacation felt genuinely *restful*, and I have a lot of energy going into the
new year. Whatever it is, I hope I'm able to keep it up for the rest of winter!

I'm not usually a 'resolutions' person, because I'm always setting goals and
trying to become the person I want to be, and new year's is no different. But
`Gretchen Rubin`_ introduced the idea of `'18 for 2018'`_ last year, and is
reprising it for this year, and I was inspired to participate. Many of these
are goals I already had but hadn't yet written down, and many of them are also
not so much "goals" but things that I know if I don't take the time to do them
they will never get done (like getting a pedicure!). This is a pretty
wishy-washy list - I'm not taking it too seriously, but am hoping it will
inspire me throughout the year to seek new experiences.

.. _Gretchen Rubin: https://gretchenrubin.com/
.. _'18 for 2018': https://gretchenrubin.com/podcast-episode/149-happier-18-for-2018-roz-chast/

My word for the year is **curious**, and some items on the list
reflect that. I want to explore a new state! To get more comfortable
with yeast! But all with a spirit of playfulness and fun. I don't want
to just check these items off the list, I want to learn new things
from them and grow.

Ok, enough typing. With that here are 19 things I hope to do in 2019:

1. Run 20 miles (without stopping)

2. :strike:`Find a workout class to attend at least once per week` Eli and I
   started doing `Orange Theory`_, and LOVE it. I've made so many friends there, and love going each morning.

.. _this class: http://www.southsidebootycamp.com/
.. _Orange Theory: https://www.orangetheoryfitness.com/

3. :strike:`See every movie nominated for the Oscar's best picture` I've
   accepted failure on this one because I refuse to see 'A Star is Born'
   (Remade 4 times? Make a new movie, Hollywood) and 'Bohemian Rhapsody'
   (`61% on RT`_ - not worth my time).

.. _61% on RT: https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/bohemian_rhapsody

4. :strike:`Visit a new US state` We went to Hawaii!

5. :strike:`Get a pedicure`

6. :strike:`Deactivate my Facebook account`

7. :strike:`Read 100 books`

8. Find a way to display my postcards

9. :strike:`Make 1 vegan meal each week` I didn't accomplish this to the
   letter, but did accomplish the spirit of the goal in that I have several
   vegan recipes I make regularly, like this `chickpea soup`_ (sans the parmesan)

.. _chickpea soup: http://recipes.lucywyman.me/chickpea-vegetable-soup.html

10. :strike:`Take a class (in anything)` We ended up taking a bike maintenance
    class at a local bike shop, where we learned how to patch a tire

11. Bake cinnamon rolls

12. Visit Mackenzie in Denver

13. Have a crossword published in the New York Times 

14. strike:`Use the 1 million (jk, 20) lipsticks I have`

15. Visit the `Living Computer Museum`_

.. _Living Computer Museum: https://livingcomputers.org/

16. :strike:`Help Sean plant a plant during the spring`

17. This goal sucks because it's hard to quantify, but be nicer to
    myself. My internal dialog tends to be really negative, and while
    I'm in general a happy person I'm not very kind when reflecting on
    myself. I want to start having more positive self-talk

18. :strike:`Take pictures of Eli and I in Hawaii` - I was looking through our
    Japan pictures, and there are so few that have us in them. While
    it's cool to reflect on the things we saw, it's also nice to see
    that we were there.

19. :strike:`Last but not least, get a massage!` I've literally scheduled about
    5 massages at `Olympus`_, and have always ended up cancelling
    because something came up. I'm determine to get there this year.

.. _Olympus: https://olympusspa.com/
