19 for 2019
===========
:date: 01-01-2019
:tags: experiences
:category: Experiences
:slug: 19-for-2019
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: pinky-promise.jpg

Happy New Year! I usually *hate* new years: the 'happy' part of winter
is over, and ahead of us is 3 months of cold wet dark miserable. But
this year I'm excited to get back to work, and excited about the year
that just ended and the year to come. I'm not sure if it's because I
live with Eli now, or because we have Hawaii coming up in
mid-February, or because I've hit a groove in my job and am ready to
hit the ground running. I think part of it too is that this vacation
felt genuinely *restful*, and I have a lot of energy going into the
new year. Whatever it is, I hope I'm able to keep it up for the rest
of winter!

I'm not usually a 'resolutions' person, because I'm always setting
goals and trying to become the person I want to be, and new year's is
no different. But `Gretchen Rubin`_ introduced the idea of `'18 for
2018'`_ last year, and is reprising it for this year, and I was
inspired to participate. Many of these are goals I already had but
hadn't yet written down, and many of them are also not so much "goals"
but things that I know if I don't take the time to do them they will
never get done (like getting a pedicure!). This is a pretty
wishy-washy list - I'm not taking it too seriously, but am hoping it
will inspire me throughout the year to seek new experiences.

.. _Gretchen Rubin: https://gretchenrubin.com/
.. _'18 for 2018': https://gretchenrubin.com/podcast-episode/149-happier-18-for-2018-roz-chast/

My word for the year is **curious**, and some items on the list
reflect that. I want to explore a new state! To get more comfortable
with yeast! But all with a spirit of playfulness and fun. I don't want
to just check these items off the list, I want to learn new things
from them and grow.

Ok, enough typing. With that here are 19 things I hope to do in 2019:

1. Run 20 miles (without stopping)

2. Find a workout class to attend at least once per week (I'm starting
   `this class`_ next week - we'll see how it goes!)

.. _this class: http://www.southsidebootycamp.com/

3. See every movie nominated for the Oscar's best picture

4. Visit a new US state

5. Get a pedicure

6. Delete my Facebook account

7. Read 100 books

8. Find a way to display my postcards

9. Make 1 vegan meal each week

10. Take a class (in anything)

11. Bake cinnamon rolls

12. Visit Mackenzie in Denver

13. Have a crossword published in the New York Times 

14. Use the 1 million (jk, 20) lipsticks I have

15. Visit the `Living Computer Museum`_

.. _Living Computer Museum: https://livingcomputers.org/

16. Help Sean plant a plant during the spring

17. This goal sucks because it's hard to quantify, but be nicer to
    myself. My internal dialog tends to be really negative, and while
    I'm in general a happy person I'm not very kind when reflecting on
    myself. I want to start having more positive self-talk

18. Take pictures of Eli and I in Hawaii - I was looking through our
    Japan pictures, and there are so few that have us in them. While
    it's cool to reflect on the things we saw, it's also nice to see
    that we were there.

19. Last but not least, get a massage! I've literally scheduled about
    5 massages at `Olympus`_, and have always ended up cancelling
    because something came up. I'm determine to get there this year.

.. _Olympus: https://olympusspa.com/
