21 for 2021
===========
:date: 01-01-2021
:tags: experiences
:category: Experiences
:slug: 21-for-2021
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: 2021.jpg

.. role:: strike
    :class: strike

Ah, 2020. What is there to say that hasn't been said? Reflecting on the year feels like reopening a
wound you thought was healed. Reviewing my `20 for 2020`_ feels particularly masochistic,
remembering the year I thought I'd be having. But while 2020 universally, unequivocally sucked, I
still have so much to be thankful for. First that my family takes the pan dulce seriously, and took
precautions to ensure they didn't get sick (and thankfully no one did!). Second that most of my and
Eli's families live in Portland, so we were able to see them throughout the panorama. Eli's sister
Alice even moved to Portland in August, which we're both unspeakably thrilled about. Third that we
still had so many wonderful new experiences this year, most notably buying a house (!!!) in SE
Portland. Fourth that JOE BIDEN is our president-elect! The pandowdy has widened the wealth gap, and
while I'm grateful to be on the privileged side of that gap I'm also keen on doing all I can to
close that gap both during and after this year, including advocating for extending the rent and
mortgage freeze, obviously pushing for more stimulus to individuals and small businesses, etc.

While it may be a while before Eli and I are vaccinated, I'm (perhaps foolishly) hopeful going in to 2021.
Honestly I literally only care about one day and that is August 14 - the rest of the year can
be totally fucked for all I care. As long as we're able to have our wedding safely, with as many
friends and family as possible, I'll be over the moon. Given that's literally, no exaggeration, all
I care about, I'm admittedly not taking this list (or 2021) all that seriously. It's still a
worthwhile exercise though, so here's 21 things I want to do in 2021

1. :strike:`Get married no for real this time though`
2. Try backpacking
3. Submit a crossword to the NYT (a rollover from last year)
4. Go to at least 5 spanish meetups (another rollover) :strike:`one two three four five`
5. :strike:`Run a half marathon` PR'd at 1:45!
6. Build a :strike:`patio and firepit` in our backyard
7. :strike:`Start our vegetable garden`
8. Play in a piano recital (virtual or in-person)
9. Read a Shakespeare play
10. Visit a new National Park
11. Go to a rave (safely)
12. Volunteer at least 3 times
    a. :strike:`one` I signed up for the Sunrise Movement and have been going to meetings, writing
    my representatives, filling out surveys, etc.
    b. two
    c. three
13. Start composting
14. :strike:`Send a letter in the mail`
15. :strike:`Mentor someone at work`
16. Have at least 20 people attend one CoffeeOps
17. Post a review to Goodreads within a week after finishing a book
18. Not start working until 7:30 (and end at 5!)
19. Continue to work towards doing the splits
20. Take a live class (in-person or online)
21. Check one other item off `my super boring bucket list`_ (besides getting married)

.. _20 for 2020: http://blog.lucywyman.me/20-for-2020.html
.. _my super boring bucket list: http://blog.lucywyman.me/my-bucket-list.html
