-23- 8 Things I Learned This Year
=================================
:date: 2018-02-14
:tags: experiences
:category: Experiences
:slug: 23
:author: Lucy Wyman
:image:

Happy Valentine's Day! Today is my 23rd birthday, and to celebrate I
wanted to reflect on what I had learned in the last year. As I wrote
during my recent `new years post`_, this last year has not been the
most exciting year, and I'm honestly a little glad it's over. But!
Like any year, a lot of things happened, I grew a lot, and marking
those transitions is important to continuing to grow. So here are my
take-aways from a year of being 22:

1. I miss playing the piano. I played for most of my childhood, mostly
   out of obligation to my parents but somewhat for myself. But I
   stopped playing when I went to university; despite having pianos
   available for playing on campus, it was hard to make a habit out of
   playing and I had to go out of my way to play. Now that there's no
   piano available to play I really miss creating music in my life,
   and whenever I hear songs I used to play I long to tickle the
   ivories again. I'm hoping to acquire a piano once we're in Seattle
   so I can play again!
2. I *need* exercise to stay sane. I've always known that exercise
   played a key role in maintaining my mental health, but when I took
   just 3 days in a row off over Christmas (I usually take 2 days off
   per week, but not in a row) I could immediately feels the
   difference in my mood. I was cranky, anxious, and slightly
   depressed, despite being in a beautiful place surrounded by people
   I love during a happy time of year, and it made me realize that
   getting my heart rate up and endorphins flowing regularly is a
   necessary part of my life. 
3. I don't have any food sensitivities! I did the whole30 during the
   month of July, and while it was a great exercise in discipline and
   resetting my system, I didn't feel any adverse effects after
   reintroducing all the foods. Honestly, this has given me a lot of
   peace of mind since doing the experiment. I never have to wonder if
   that weird feeling in my stomach is because I had a glass of milk
   -- it definitely isn't. I never have to consider if gluten-free is
   a better option for me -- it's not. Nutrition is super personal,
   and experimenting with my own diet has paid off tremendously!
4. I am, however, very sensitive to the cold. We spent 3 weeks in
   Tokyo, and as always while travelling internationally I learned
   something about my bodily needs: cold Lucy is not fun Lucy. I was
   too cheap to buy a jacket in Japan, and in hind sight it would have
   been money well spent to help me enjoy the trip and not dread being
   outside. Lesson learned: spend the money, and be warm!
5. Team. Jess. It was almost a year ago now, but I marathoned Gilmore
   Girls last winter and am still crushed that Rory didn't end up with
   the smoldering, smart, bad-boy love of her life she was clearly
   meant to be with. And no, I did not watch 'A day in the life'.
6. I can run 13.1 miles in a row without stopping, and not die. 
7. Never be afraid to rock a dark lipstick. It doesn't look as stupid
   as you'd think.
8. There are *so many* things I don't know. Like most people my perceived
   intelligence has fluctuated a lot over the course of my life, and this
   past year it's definitely been a year of particularly low
   perceived-intelligence. As always, it's less what you know and more about
   what you 'know you don't know'. So I should say, there are now *so many*
   things I know that I don't know.

To be honest, I wanted to write 22 things that I learned but it's already 2
weeks past my birthday and I still haven't thought of any more. Better done
than perfect! 

.. _new years post: http://blog.lucywyman.me/2017-year-in-review.html
