A Curly Girl's Guide to Dandruff
================================
:date: 2017-03-29
:tags: experiences, health
:category: Experiences
:slug: guide-to-dandruff
:author: Lucy Wyman

It's embarrassing, it's itchy, it's *everywhere*. I've had dandruff
since I was a teenager, and as my personal care routine has evolved to
suit my body's needs my dandruff has stubbornly persisted.  When I was
shampooing every day? Dandruff. When I went months without shampooing?
Dandruff.  Tea tree oil? Dandruff. Special shampoos? Dandruff. I want
to get to the root (ha) of this problem, and **solve my itchy, flaky
scalp without destroying my precious curls**. Many women, myself
included, will tell you they've spent years perfecting their hair care
routine. It's a science, a long series of experiments and tweaks to
help our hair be healthy and strong.  I don't want to lose all the
progress I've made in that routine, so the challenge here is really to
**fix the dandruff without sacrificing the health of my hair**.
Challenge: Accepted.

I started researching the causes of dandruff and, it turns out, there
are not 1, not 2, but 4 potential causes of dandruff (`Mayo clinic`_).
This means that you'll have to experiment with different treatments to
find what works for you!  Ok, so let's take a look at those causes:

.. _Mayo clinic: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/dandruff/symptoms-causes/dxc-20215281

Fungus
------

EW! According to the Mayo Clinic, one cause of dandruff is "A
yeast-like fungus, Malassezia, which lives on the scalps of most
adults. But, for some, it irritates the scalp and can cause more skin
cells to grow. The extra skin cells die and fall off, making them
appear white and flaky in your hair or on your clothes. Why malassezia
irritates some scalps isn't known." Ok, so we all have some fungus on
our heads, and allegedly this is the primary cause of dandruff for
most adults (especially if you're following a solid haircare routine
to begin with). What can we do if it's a problem? 

Treatments
~~~~~~~~~~

There are a lot of natural treatments for this type of dandruff,
including:

* **Tea tree oil**. My SO uses `this highly concentrated kind`_, rubbing
  it into his scalp after a shower about once a month.
* **Apple Cider Vinegar**. It makes your skin glow! It helps
  digestion! It cures cancer! I know, I know, ACV is practically 
  the coconut oil of 2017. But
  allegedly the acidity helps kill the fungus, and prevent it from
  growing so quickly. **Lemon juice** also works for this.  Mix with
  equal parts water and spray onto scalp ~15-20 minutes before
  showering.
* **Medicated Shampoos**.  You've seen them at the drug store. You're
  looking for one that contains ketoconazole, selenium sulfide, or
  pyrithione zinc. It's recommended you use it as often as your hair
  can handle, which for me is honestly only once a week (even then,
  the next day is rough).  If it
  helps, awesome! If not, read on.

.. _this highly concentrated kind: https://www.amazon.com/Now-Foods-Tea-Tree-Oil/dp/B000ELP5KA

Bacteria
--------

According to 2016 study published in Nature, bacteria (mainly
Propionibacterium and Staphylococcus) can contribute more to dandruff
than Malassezia (`Study`_). 

.. _Study: http://www.nature.com/articles/srep24877

Treatments
~~~~~~~~~~

Dry Scalp
---------

Symptoms here are small, less-oily white flakes with no redness or
inflammation. It's especially likely that this if your culprit if you're prone to dry skin on
other parts of you as well.  

Treatments
~~~~~~~~~~

Irritated, Oily Skin
--------------------

AKA seborrheic dermatitis.  According to Mayo Clinic, this is the most
common cause of dandruff, though I'm skeptical of this. The symptoms
include red, irritated, greasy skin covered by flaky white or yellow
scales, and is often found on other hairy parts of the body, not just
your scalp (think: eyebrows).  In other words, you would *know* if you
had this, and would definitely want to do something about it. Hence,
skepticism. But if you take a close look at your scalp in the mirror
and do notice redness or greasiness, this could be what's causing your
dandruff!

Treatments
~~~~~~~~~~

This is worth seeing your doctor for, and following what they
prescribe.

Buildup
-------

This is just when you don't shampoo enough, so dead skin cells and
oils build up then flake off. Honestly, when I
was only shampooing once a month, I didn't notice my dandruff get
better or worse. I'm guessing, if you're reading this, that this isn't
your issue. But it is a common cause of dandruff for the
less-than-tidy among us, and knowledge worth having in your back
pocket for all those times friends ask you for advice on getting rid
of dandruff.

Treatments
~~~~~~~~~~

Literally just shampoo more. Any shampoo. 

Bad Reaction to Products
------------------------

I suspect this is kind of rare, and once again that you would know if
you had this, but many hair products contain harsh chemicals that your
skin may be reacting to. If you think this might be the case, or
haven't used a new shampoo in a while, I especially like `Dr.Bronner`_
products for natural soaps and shampoos.  

.. _Dr.Bronner: https://www.drbronner.com/

General Treatments
------------------

There are a few things you can do to keep your body healthy, and
prevent some dandruff in the process. These are all things you already
know you should be doing, but if dandruff is really the kick in the
pants you need to change some habits then do it!

* **Get enough sleep**
* **Drink enough water**
* **Eat a balanced diet**, including lots of **fruits and vegetables**.
* **Exercise**

What Worked for Me
------------------

Whew! Ok, so a *lot* of things could be causing dandruff. I was pretty
sure that my dandruff wasn't being caused by buildup or a reaction to
any products I was using, and was relatively sure that it wasn't dry
scalp (since my scalp was still oily). The Fungus seemed like the most
likely culprit based on my symptoms and the fact that it's so common,
and since I like using natural products I gave tea tree oil a shot
first. 

I used 100% tea tree oil, and would just dab it on my scalp 1-2 times
each week, and rub it in. This helped a little bit, but not as much as
I had hoped. It was also relatively expensive, especially for how much
oil I had to use for each use. This was definitely a "There must be a
better way!" situation.

Next I tried using baking soda as a scalp scrubber. I would use about
2 tbsp of it in the shower, scrubbing my scalp for a minute or two
then rinsing it out. This wasn't a *bad* solution, but it was
definitely kind of messy and left my hair feeling a little dry. On the
plus side, though, I discovered that it does make a great (occasional)
face scrub, which I used about once every 2 weeks or when my face is
feeling especially bumpy or oily. So not bad, but not great either.

The next step was to try a `natural anti-dandruff shampoo`_. I've
always been wary of using shampoo, since curly hair tends to do better
with minimal shampooing and doesn't hold up well to harsh chemicals
and lathering agents common in shampoos (sodium laureth sulfate is
basically my hair's worst nightmare). But I found a shampoo that
didn't have any of the harsh chemicals I had been conditioned to
avoid, was reasonably priced, and had tea tree oil as it's main
anti-dandruff combatant.  Coincidentally at the same time, I decided
to get a `scalp scrubber`_ similar to one my boyfriend uses, which
turned out to be *super* useful. I use the shampoo 2x/week, and use
the scalp scrubber to lather it and make sure that I get it over all
of my scalp. **This was the solution I had been waiting for!**  My
hair didn't dry out (and, in fact, I got a new conditioner that makes
it super soft and lovely), and my dandruff was *gone*.  **Gone gone**.
No more itching, no more flakes everywhere, no more oily finger and
gross keyboard. I cannot overstate what a miracle these 2 products
have been for me!

.. _natural anti-dandruff shampoo: https://www.amazon.com/Natural-Cosmetics-Dandruff-Shampoo-Rosemary/dp/B000FGDIAS

Conclusion
----------

In the end, it was just a matter of trying different things that fit
my lifestyle and needs until I found a solution that works. Regardless
of what's causing your dandruff or if you even have dandruff, I highly
recommend getting a `scalp scrubber`_ (the one linked works for me,
but shop around for one that works for you!). It helps circulate blood
to your scalp, and I've noticed significant improvement in the volume
and health of my hair as well as my scalp since using it (your mileage
may vary). But for $8 you may as well, right? Then, looking into a
natural anti-dandruff shampoo, most likely with tea tree oil, is
another good step if you're looking for things to try. I like `this
one`_, but again find something that works for you! 

So that's it folks! I hope this helps you in your own hair and
dandruff journey 

.. _scalp scrubber: https://www.amazon.com/Shampoo-Scalp-Massage-Brush-Century/dp/B0028R4SRO
.. _this one: https://www.amazon.com/Natural-Cosmetics-Dandruff-Shampoo-Rosemary/dp/B000FGDIAS
