On Being Taken Care Of
======================
:date: 08-04-2018
:tags: thoughts
:category: Thoughts
:slug: on-being-taken-care-of
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img:

I'm currently sitting on the rooftop deck at New Seasons in Portland,
OR. I've been travelling to Portland for work pretty frequently since
moving to Seattle, and among the things I love about visiting Portland
is getting to buy food on the company's dime (or having my parents pay
for my food if we go out). This trip is for pleasure though, and while
my partner and I are typically very diligent about planning our food,
bringing snacks, grocery shopping and making out own food even on
vacation I completely neglected to do that for this particular trip. I
found myself away from home with no food and no one paying my way, and
have therefore eaten out for every meal. And it has been equal parts
*expensive* and *delightful*. I'm much more aware and concious of my
purchases since they are with my own money, and find myself
introspecting deeply before each meal. *Is this what I want to eat? Is
it worth the price? How hungry am I really? What am I craving?* And I
also find myself enjoying my meals much more. At home, eating is often
pleasurable but also something I kind of have to do. I won't say it's
"something to get through" -- I love to eat -- but it's not something
I reflect on much.

I've also realized that part of my relishing these meals out is that
*I didn't have to do anything* (except pay, woops). I didn't have to
get the groceries, or slice the veggies, or cook the food, or do the
dishes. I didn't have to save the leftovers or take out the trash or
wipe the counters.  This realization makes it sound like I've never
eaten out before, which of course I have innumerable times. And in
general I'd say I don't even like eating out that much - I love to
cook, and to know what I'm going to eat ahead of time, and besides am
generally a very picky eater. But on this trip, not having to think
about food and eating what I want when I want without any of the work
has been *divine*.

I think what I'm realizing in this moment more than how fun it is to
eat out is how nice it is to be taken care of. In this case the
eateries are taking care of me, but I also love seeing my parents for
this reason: I feel taken care of. I feel free of worry and
responsibility, neither of which weigh particularly heavy on me at all
but enough that I appreciate when they aren't there. That's something
I didn't, and couldn't, appreciate as a kid, when everything was taken
care of. And begs the question *what do I have now that I'm not
appreciating before it's gone?*

So anyway, major shout out to my mom for taking care of me, both as a
kid and now. Both literally and figuratively, I couldn't have done it
without you.
