Book Review: Choose Your Own Autobiography
==========================================
:date: 2016-12-17
:tags: book-review
:category: Books
:slug: choose-your-own-autobiography
:author: Lucy Wyman
:grade: B
:img: choose-your-own-autobiography.jpg

`Choose Your Own Autobiography`_ is the work of Neil Patrick Harris,
detailing different parts of his life until now. Although the book is
done in the style of the Choose Your Own Adventure books, I listened
to the book on tape where flipping to page 129 wasn't exactly feasible
:p . The author himself narrates it though, and did his best to take
us through the book from start to finish without getting lost along
the way. NPH's past, from aspiring adolescent actor to young stardom
to proud husband and parent, is an interesting story told with classic
NPH humor. I can't say it was my favorite autobiography, as it
definitely erred on the side of trying too hard to be funny rather
than genuine or meaningful. But, walking the streets of San Francisco,
this book definitely held my interested and brightened my days. It was
entertaining, but didn't leave me feeling like I had insight into who
NPH was as a person at all. I will say, though, that listening to him
talk (or read aloud) about his kids was *heart melting*.  I had no
idea what the experiences of being a "closeted" gay celebrity or a gay couple trying to
have kids were, and hearing about those first-hand was super
interesting. Definitely a tiny drop of knowledge from a world I know
little or nothing about, which is always excellent!  Overall, I
definitely recommend this book if you're looking for something light,
that doesn't require too much attention, or love all things NPH. 

.. _Choose Your Own Autobiography: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20170296-neil-patrick-harris
