Book Review: The Art of Racing in the Rain
==========================================
:date: 2016-10-16
:tags: book-review
:category: Books
:slug: the-art-of-racing-in-the-rain
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: art-of-racing-in-the-rain.jpg

While doing chores and running errands this weekend, I had a chance to
read `The Art of Racing in the Rain`_ by Garth Stein. As a dog owner
and lover I was simultaneously excited and wary of another book about
a dog where the dog inevitably the dog dies at the end. But I set
aside my trepidation and dove in, and was rewarded tremendously for
doing so! The book is narrated by a dog, Enzo, as he chronicles the
life of his beloved owner Denny. But it is about *so much more* than
the relationship between a man and his dog.  It's about the pain of
cancer and death, the different ways we grieve, and ultimately focuses
on how bad things happen to good people. It's about making the hardest
right decisions, about being the bigger person, all told through the
lens of racing (yes, car racing) by the canine narrator.  And it made
me *feel* so strongly.  I had such visceral reactions to the events of
the book, and realized that was part of what made it so good.  The
characters were so compelling, the events so relatable, I found my
blood boiling at points, experienced jubilation and depression and
grief right alongside the characters.  So much malice! So much hope!
The role of the dog as narrator doesn't even really stand out in
hindsight, as it's completely eclipsed by the richness of the rest of
the novel.  

Anyway, if you couldn't tell, I loved the book and would highly
recommend it. I'll admit it starts out a little slow, but try to power
through at least 1/3 of it before giving up entirely (it's a short
read). It made my rainy Sunday fly by, and is appropriately the perfect
rainy-weekend companion :)

.. _The Art of Racing in the Rain: http://www.garthstein.com/works/the-art-of-racing-in-the-rain/
