Book Review: The Girls
======================
:date: 2016-10-20
:tags: book-review
:category: Books
:slug: the-girls
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: the-girls.jpeg

Ahh, the much anticipated, `celebrity-book-listed`_, book of the Fall
season, `The Girls`_ by Emma Cline.  I was very intrigued by this book
since it had been hyped so much, and after reading it am somewhat
mystified by the noise around it.  Don't get me wrong, this isn't a
*bad* book.  But if I had the ear of millions of people, it's
definitely not the first one I would recommend either. I'll start with
what I liked, compliment sandwich style.  Emma Cline's use of language
is incredible, and her ability to set a scene and make you *feel*
every detail of that scene is unparalleled.  Those tiny things you
notice but would never think to write down, or describe in the way she
does, and then the way she builds entire characters and events out of
those details is amazing. You can feel sticky heat, the stings of
shame, the meaning imbued in a moment's hesitation or a sideways
glance.  All of those microscopic tinges are blown up to full size,
and make the book *rich*. 

Ok, so, I loved Cline's writing, why was the book just meh? The
content was really the downfall of this book.  I didn't find any of
the characters compelling, and found it *painfully* slow at many
points. There's a murder set up in the opening paragraphs which
becomes the climax of the story, but the journey to that climax takes
*so long* and involves little to no detail about the murder.  Someone
dies, and we don't even know or care about that person. The murder is
supposed to be the climax, but at the end falls utterly flat.  I will
give Cline credit for her time-jumping between modern day and memory.
She used it well to develop the main character and made it obvious which
era you were currently reading, both of which are hard to do well and
hard to do well at the same time. But in the end that definitely
couldn't save a half-hearted story.  

If you're thinking about picking it up, and leave it at the bottom of
your to-read list. It's definitely worth giving a try, but I wouldn't
hurry to read it.

.. _celebrity-book-listed: https://www.instagram.com/p/BJPHBBYgpnE/
.. _The Girls: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26893819-the-girls
