Book Review: The Bell Jar
=========================
:date: 2017-05-03
:tags: book-review
:category: Books
:slug: the-bell-jar
:author: Lucy Wyman
:grade: A
:img: the-bell-jar.jpg

Sylvia Plath's only novel, `The Bell Jar`_ is a fantastic dive into
the mind, and her experiences with mental illness.
Semi-autobiographical, the language Plath uses to describe her/Esther's
outlook, experiences, and later treatments is *beautiful*. Her writing
puts the reader right into Esther's head, and gives them an
understanding of what living with a mental illness is like. Even
better, her language changes throughout the novel as Esther's health
changes, reflecting her darker moods, as well as her better days.
Esther is a fantastically sympathetic and vibrant character, despite
her cynicism and depression. I found myself really invested in her
story and experiences, and again Plath's writing paints a luscious
picture of that story. I don't want to oversell this novel -- I think
part of why I loved it is because I came into it expecting it to be
Yet Another Classic Book which I often find to be overly masculine.
But this wasn't. Throughout the book, even at the peak of Esther's
descent into mental illness, I found myself identifying really
strongly with her and investing in what happened to her. It feels rare
to read a book in a woman's voice that's highly regarded, and I was
very pleasantly surprised by the femininity that colors the book. 

Overall, this was another great read. Again, expectations definitely
may have played into my reading, but on the whole I was blown away by
the style, substance, characters, and story of The Bell Jar. Highly,
highly recommended summer reading!

.. _The Bell Jar: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6514.The_Bell_Jar
