Book Review: It Ends With Us
============================
:date: 2016-12-03
:tags: book-review
:category: Books
:slug: it-ends-with-us
:author: Lucy Wyman
:grade: A
:img: it-ends-with-us.jpg

`It Ends With Us`_ is a harrowing story of love and abuse, and how
abusive relationships aren't usually as black-and-white as we like to
think. 'It Ends With Us' follows Lily Bloom as she opens her own
flower shop and falls in love with a surgeon, Ryle Kincaid. With a
history of abuse in the family and vivid memories of her mother
covered in bruises and cuts, Lily knows too well the cycle of violence
and apology that so many abusive men exhibit. But when her
relationship with Ryle takes increasingly dark turns, she denies that
anything is wrong. At first they seem like such small incidents --
things that could happen to anybody. We all lose our tempers, or lash
out when we don't mean to. But as Ryle becomes her husband, and then
the father of her child, his violence escalates. With her own daughter
on the way, she's faced with a choice: be just like her mother, or
leave.

'It Ends With Us' was deeply personal for Colleen Hoover, and that shines
through in the novel. The characters are rich and sympathetic, and
they show the nuance and shades of grey in an abusive relationship.
It's easy to look in from the outside and judge victims of abuse for
staying. How can they not see what's happening to them? How can they
live each day with people who hit them, or scream at them? 'It Ends
With Us' helped me understand how those relationships are like frogs
in hot water, how abusive husbands can have a lot of good qualities
and think they are good people (though make no mistake, they are
*monsters*), and how it can be easy to explain away incidents of
abuse. I won't spoil anything, but I will say that there's also a very
happy ending, which was well worth sticking around for! 

I was deeply touched by 'It Ends With Us', and came away not only with
another good love story in my ears but with a deeper understanding of
what victims of abuse go through. The mark of a great book is one that
not only entertains and rivets, but that changes the way you move
through everyday life and see the world. 

.. _It Ends With Us: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27362503-it-ends-with-us
