Cancun 2020
===========
:date: 04-18-2020
:tags: travel
:category: Travel
:slug: cancun-2020
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: cancun-2020.jpg

.. role:: strike
  :class: strike

Eli and I are on our way home from 8 sun-soaked days in Cancun, both of us
excited to be back in Portland. Cancun was a mixed bag for us, with unexpected
(but completely predictable) downsides as well as some amazing highlights. It
was a great trip and we had a lot of fun, but in the same breath I don't think
we'd ever go back. Live and learn.

We realized on arrival that Cancun is all about traffic and tourism. There are
some redeeming experiences: a meaty taco tour, gorgeous beach walks, delicious
horchata. Here's what we did while not on Spring Break:

Saturday
--------

Despite taking off at 5 am our Portland -> Seattle -> Cancun flight was not
just tolerable but relaxing. I luxuriated in multiple crosswords, finished all
the podcasts I'd been meaning to for months, and finally read the `NYT article
on minimalism`_ I'd had open since January. There were no screaming babies or
serial sneezers. I didn't even regret the absence of a seat-back screen or
mid-flight meal.

Once we landed and got through customs we decided to bus to our hotel,
like all neurotic Portlanders must. We got tickets for an ADO bus that would
get us to downtown Cancun, where we'd catch another bus that would take us to
our hotel. It sounds like a lot, but was actually an enjoyable adventure
through a new landscape. On the trip into downtown Cancun we watched a Spanish
movie about a devastating earthquake on the bus ride in, and we got to see the
less-toured side of the city.

The rest of the day was boring: checking in, unpacking, finding water, getting
dinner. We fell asleep after bingeing `Bon Appetit`_ videos, as one should.

.. _NYT article on minimalism: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/24/opinion/sunday/minimalism-definition-history.html
.. _Bon Appetit: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKtIunYVkv_RwB_yx1SZrZC-ddhxyXanh

Sunday: The North Strip
-----------------------

.. figure:: theme/images/cancun-day1.jpg
  :height: 400px

I slept in until *8:30 am* (cue gasp). We spent most of the day walking, first
along the beach (*gorgeous*), then along "The Strip" just off the beach
(aggressively capitalist), then eventually back to our hotel (hot and sticky).
We delighted in `novelties from Mexican bodegas`_, stopped somewhere
nondescript for lunch, and basked in the late-stage capitalism of la Zona
Hotelera. While walking we talked about how uncomfortable it was to be in such
a touristy place, and what else we might like to do with our vacation time in
the future. It's not that this vacation was *bad*, but that we realized we
prefer relaxing in places where walking and biking are easy, and where there's
more to do than buy things.

.. figure:: theme/images/la-joya.jpg
  :height: 250px

Once home we lazed on the beach until sunset, then went to `La Joya`_ for
dinner. I had found this restaurant online, with middling reviews among the
slue of in-hotel sit-down restaurants. We went expecting about the same
experience you'd get at a Chili's and were so delightfully wrong. First came the
'compliments of the chef', which put Olive Garden's unlimited breadsticks to
shame. We were brought free tortilla chips with three types of dipping salsa, a
*platter* with 4 types of rolls and 3 types of butter, and the most adorable
cups of fresh ceviche. About 20 minutes into our meal an 8-piece MARIACHI BAND
came out and serenaded each table (including ours!), singing to awkward and
enchanted diners alike. While I think being sung to is generally uncomfortable
(evidenced by every wait-staff rendition of 'Happy Birthday' ever), this was
somehow lovely - there was so much to take in with the mariachi costumes and
instruments, and the songs were beautiful. It was more romantic than I
expected. We lingered over drinks for a while after dinner, then were brought
fresh churros with vanilla and chocolate dipping sauces along with our check
before floating home to bed.

.. _novelties from Mexican bodegas: https://www.coca-colamexico.com.mx/packages/lechitas-bebibles
.. _La Joya: https://www.opentable.com/r/la-joya-grand-fiesta-americana-coral-beach-cancun

Monday: Downtown Cancun
-----------------------

We spent Monday in downtown Cancun, walking and bussing around the city. I was
on a mission from God to find *pastel de platano* (since New Seasons
`tragically discontinued theirs`_), so we started at the delightful but
cake-less European-style bakery `El Globo`_. `Conchas`_ in hand we walked about
30 minutes south to breakfast at `Cafe Antoinette`_, a bougie French-style
cafe, before continuing to Parque Urbano Kabah. We meandered the loop trail
through the 100-acre nature reserve, enjoying the exotic flora and fauna as
well as the coolness of the shaded path. One of our least favorite things about
Cancun was the prevalence of fast traffic in both the Hotel Zone and Downtown,
so it was also relaxing to not deal with cars for a while. After tiring
ourselves out on the trail we made our way back to home base to rest up for the
main event: A `TACO TOUR`_.

.. figure:: theme/images/taco-tour.jpg
  :height: 300px

Our guide, Cayetano, picked us up at our hotel where we met our fellow touring couple,
a med school student and civil engineer from Richmond, Virginia. No shade to
Cayetano, but I had as much fun talking to Sonia and Connor as I did listening
to his fun facts about Cancun (which is to say: a lot). We started the tour in
a rough neighborhood north of the city center at a literal concrete bunker
turned restaurant, `Loncheria El Pocito`_. Despite the disquieting location and
lackluster atmosphere, the food was *phenomenal*. The pork had been slow
roasted all day, and was mouthwateringly flavorful. Hands down my favorite taco
of the night (though....I was also the hungriest for this one).

Next we patroned `Taqueria Coapenitos`_, whose signature taco featured crumbled
chicharrÃ³n and avocado atop it's pork filling. Our least remarkable stop, but
still a tasty taco.

Our third stop was `Tacos Rigo`_, a bright and colorful place serving `variety
meat`_ tacos. This is where I learned that "variety meat" doesn't mean multiple
meats, but parts of the animal other than skeletal muscle: tongue, liver,
eye-socket, brain, etc. Everyone else ordered a taco with connective tissue
from between the lungs and ribs. To me they all sounded equally gross, so I
ordered the 'mixed' meat which looked most finely minced and therefore
unrecognizable, not realizing this order would elicit a disgusted "Oh" from our
guide. He said, verbatim "I can't wait to see your face when you take a bite".
Anything once, right? The taco honestly didn't taste that bad but had an
extremely unsettling texture, which resulted in a one-bite visit for me. But it
was honestly something I would never have tried if not on the tour, and was
certainly a unique experience!

The last restaurant was `La Parilla`_, where we had tacos al pastor then got to
head back to the kitchen to make a few tortillas. This was declared the
favorite by Cayetano, Connor, and Eli, so I guess it's good? But by this point
I was still queasy from my offal taco and couldn't stomach more meat. We walked
a few blocks to a Mexican ice cream chain and desserted before being driven
back to our hotels, happy and very full.

.. _Loncheria El Pocito: https://www.tripadvisor.com/Restaurant_Review-g150807-d8362782-Reviews-Loncheria_El_Pocito-Cancun_Yucatan_Peninsula.html
.. _Taqueria Coapenitos: http://www.coapenitos.com/
.. _Tacos Rigo: https://www.yelp.com/biz/tacos-rigo-canc%C3%BAn
.. _La Parilla: https://www.laparrilla.com.mx/

.. _tragically discontinued theirs: https://www.oregonlive.com/business/2019/12/new-seasons-shuts-down-its-central-kitchen-redeploys-166-workers.html
.. _El Globo: https://www.elglobo.com.mx/
.. _Conchas: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concha_(bread)
.. _Cafe Antoinette: http://www.cafe-antoinette.com/
.. _TACO TOUR: https://cancunfoodtours.com/
.. _variety meat: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Offal

Tuesday: Playa del Carmen
-------------------------

On Tuesday we took an ADO bus an hour south to Playa del Carmen, a small
coastal town that we ended up loving. Our bus stopped right on the main street,
which is *closed to cars* ðŸ™Œ. We walked a few minutes to the `Frida Kahlo
Museum`_, a small but aesthetic and well-curated collection of facts, stories,
prints, and best of all work by other artists about or inspired by Frida. There
weren't any originals, though allegedly they had one when they first opened but
had to move it because of the humidity. We got there just as a tour was
starting in Spanish, which was so much more informative and interesting than
just going through the museum.

.. _Frida Kahlo Museum: http://museofridakahlorivieramaya.org/home.html

.. figure:: theme/images/alter.jpg
  :height: 300px

A brief detour on Spanish. My Spanish is maybe 6 out of 10, and like everyone
with non-fluent languages it's easier to understand than speak. One thing I
realized on this trip was that so much of language comprehension is just
parsing (if only life could have subtitles). Luckily the tour guide spoke
clearly and loudly, so even though the Spanish was more complex than your
everyday interactions it was actually way easier to understand than the
mumbling bodega clerk.

I knew the broad strokes about Kahlo before the museum: her tumultuous
relationship with Diego Rivera, her perpetually broken body, and something
something communism. The finer details are incredible though, and I learned so
much from this tour. Did you know she kept monkeys and other exotics animals as
pets *in her courtyard garden*, and believed they shared her spirit (similar to
the idea of `familiars`_)? Did you know she made Rivera sign a contract before
they wed, stating that she would maintain full ownership of her house? Or that
they got divorced and remarried in the same year? Or that she allegedly had an
affair with LEON TROTSKY? From gory details of her injuries, to her compassion
for people and animals, to her fashion choices, and of course most of all her
evocative art, Frida was a larger than life figure and I loved learning about
her.

.. _familiars: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Familiar_spirit

Once we'd seen everything in the museum twice we lunched before heading to the
`3D Optical Illusion Museum`_, which was honestly one of the strangest
experiences I've had (this, after eating cow tongue the day before). The museum
is located in what looks to be an office park, though once inside it takes on a
more grandiose quality. The first part of the experience is a looping 15 minute
video circa 1989 about 3D chalk art and it's down-trodden creators. The
strangest part was not watching full-grown adults curse at the rain but being
the only two people in a hundred-person amphitheater. We left the video early
and were met by our guide, who we learned would be taking our picture in front
of *every single illusion*. She was incredibly nice and slightly goofy, and it
was equal parts fun and awkward stage and shoot each picture with her. She was
a *pro* photographer, and a lot of the shots `came out great`_, but it was
bizarre to experience something that was only for the eyes of instagram. There
wasn't anything particularly neat about the illusions on their own, and
striking the same poses as everyone else felt so blatantly unoriginal. It
wasn't bad per se, but weird.

.. _3D Optical Illusion Museum: https://www.3dmuseumofwonders.com/
.. _came out great: https://www.instagram.com/p/B8c5ilfBOn1Q_dRVKz3cxU240YtoG1_NjiiHos0/

After our photoshoot we wandered back down main street to the beach, where we
hung out people-watching until we got hungry and decided to head home. The ADO
buses play movies for each trip, and for our 90 minute ride back we got to
enjoy the entirety of Goosebumps 2 with Spanish dubs ðŸ¤Œ.

Wednesday: Isla Mujeres
-----------------------

.. figure:: theme/images/isla-mujeres.jpg
  :height: 300px

We took a ferry to Isla Mujeres, a thin island just off the coast. Unlike Playa
del Carmen we weren't entirely sure what there was to do on the isla, but we
figured we would get there and just wander around. After a quick snack we found a
paved waterfront path along the north coast, which was picturesque and nearly
empty. It ended too soon though, and we decided to walk inland and south to try
to find a brewing company we'd heard about. After a short, hot, terrifying walk
along the side of the road then a long, hot, terrifying taxi ride to the
brewery we discovered it was in fact an American ex-pat selling homebrewed
beer out of a small shack. You had to get at least four bottles and could not
drink it on the property. We left and tried to justify our trip south, but
after a bit of wandering found that this was not an area intended for tourists.
We taxi'd back to the downtown area, gave one last attempt at wandering around
before giving up on the island and ferrying home.

Thursday: The South Strip
-------------------------

We rose bright and early Thursday morning to take âœ¨engagement photosâœ¨ at
sunrise on the beach. It was a gorgeous morning, and taking photos was both
more fun and more awkward than anticipated. It was fun because most things with
Eli are fun, and we got to just be goofy together on the beach. It's also so
different from most picture taking endeavors, where you smile and pose for 60
seconds instead of 60 minutes. Our photographer, `Jorge Rodriguez`_, was
*amazing* - he was kind and good at posing us without doing too much directing.
He even brought champagne for us to pop ðŸ¥‚! We also weren't expecting to lay
down in the sand, so left the shoot soaking and coated in tiny rocks.

.. figure:: theme/images/lay-down-engagement.jpg
    :height: 300px

.. figure:: theme/images/post-photos.jpg
    :height: 300px

After going home to change and eat we went to the `Mayan Museum`_. We expected
this to be a small, underfunded endeavor meant to satisfy dad's dragged to
Cancun by their families (apparently we have really low expectations for most
things??). Instead it was a gorgeous facility, reminiscent of the Malibu Getty
museum. Most of the museum by area is an outdoor Mayan archaeological dig,
while most of it by content is inside. We started outside, basically walking
through a blissfully quiet and shady park and looking at real Mayan ruins and
archaeological digs. The ruins were cool, but the lizards were *awesome*. We
saw at least 4 different species of lizard, a handful of each species. There
were owls and other neat birds too, as well as hundreds of gorgeous mangroves.
Once we'd seen everything outside we headed into the museum, an expansive and
incredibly well-preserved collection of Mayan artifacts with detailed
information. We learned that the Mayans predated the Incans and Aztecs by about
a thousand years, that they were incredibly advanced, and that they
loved sports.

.. figure:: theme/images/mayan-dragon.jpg
    :height: 400px

.. _Jorge Rodriguez: https://www.jorgerodriguez.photography/
.. _Mayan Museum: https://www.inah.gob.mx/red-de-museos/313-museo-maya-de-cancun

Another tangent: one thing we noticed in Mexico was how alive and vibrant
native cultures are. Native cultures are completely normal and highly respected
throughout the community, and there's clear and consistent efforts to preserve
native land and traditions. Seeing people in elaborate native costumes on the
street was rare but not a big deal, and many people talked about Mayans and
other native tribes in the present tense, as neighboring communities. It wasn't
perfect by any means, and I'm sure we missed a lot of nuance. But since Mexico
has a much more homogenous population, with most people descending from native
tribes, there's an entirely different attitude towards native culture than in
the US. It helped me imagine what the world could be like if that was the case
in America, and gave me a small taste of just how poorly we treat our own
native Americans.

.. (note) I'd fact-check some of this paragrpah. We might have had confirmation bias.

After our excellent museum adventure we lunched at a muy fancy restaurant,
`Porfirio's`_, a runner up to my pick for my birthday lunch. It was about 2 pm
so we literally had the place to ourselves, and sat on the patio overlooking
the lagoon. It was very fancy and very delcious, right down to the grasshopper
guacamole (crunchy).

.. _Porfirio's: https://porfirios.com.mx/menu

Friday: My Birthday
-------------------

Finally, the raison d'Ãªtre for the entire trip: my birthday! I had spent months
daydreaming about what I wanted to do, and while it might sound mundane to most
it was overall an ideal day. We started out downtown in continued pursuit
of banana cake, and made a pit stop at Krispy Kreme for a free birthday
do[ugh]nut. We had breakfast at the mall food court which sounds terrible but
was surprisingly good, including the Christmas music that played through the
whole meal. After exhausting possible cake locations at the mall we made our
way across town to a cute coffee shop, then on to a bookstore. 

I've realized recently that I *love* bookstores. Of course I'm completely
spoiled by Powell's, but even visiting the local bookstore in Napa I was
enchanted and spent hours there. I think it's the potential in them - you
could learn so many things in a book store, and I love finding both new and old
books to add to my TBR (to be read) list. Visiting a bookstore in a country
with another language is strange though because you're expected to be fluent.
What is there for a tourist in a bookstore? Not only would you not be able to
use anything past the coloring books and kids books, but if you did you'd have
to lug it on a plane ride with you. This bookstore was well designed but, as I
discovered, had the above fatal flaws of a foreign bookstore.

After exhausting our todos downtown we went to my chosen birthday lunch spot:
`Casa Rolandi`_. While not the first or even third fanciest meal we had in
Cancun, it was a great choice. A mid-range Italian seafood joint with a patio
overlooking the Nichupte lagoon, our food was delicious and the atmosphere was
chill. It felt both special and comfortable, and the free [birthday] tiramisu
didn't hurt either. I feel like free birthday desserts are one of the last
truly free things in this world, and it makes them taste even sweeter.

We got home earlier than expected and felt conflicted about what to do that
night. I had only planned through my birthday lunch, knowing that I'm not
a "night person". But it felt sad to stay in on Valentine's Day and just
watch TV. We also were definitely not up for staying awake until 10 to go to a
club. We ended up seeing the Sonic movie with Spanish dubs, which was a
blessing and a curse. Without weed the only thing that could make the Sonic
movie interesting enough to sit through was the challenge of watching it in
Spanish, which was honestly great. Dumb jokes are funnier in foreign
languages, as if speaking at a 2nd grade level also gives you a 2nd grade sense
of humor. The downside was that didn't get to hear Jim Carrey's voice for his
portrayal of Docotr Robotnik though, which...may require getting high and
rewatching.

So, with the other 5th graders we headed home around 9 to fall into the rabbit
hole of `people who don't have internal monologues`_ before hitting the hay.

.. _Casa Rolandi: http://rolandirestaurant.com/en/
.. _people who don't have internal monologues: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u69YSh-cFXY

Saturday: :strike:`Underwater Museum`
-------------------------------------

We had planned to visit the `Underwater Museum`_, but due to a Google maps
mix-up ended up missing our boat. We were refunded the tickets, but were
seriously bummed that we missed such a special place we had really been looking
forward to. Tears were shed, but we walked it off and spent the rest of the day
going from pool to ocean to pool. I was only upset until I did Zumba on the
beach with the other moms at our resort, after which it was physically
impossible to be anything but joyous. Needless to say we were ready to go home
like...yesterday.

.. _Underwater Museum: https://musamexico.org/

Sunday: Homeward Bound
----------------------

And finally, our last day had come. Eli and I both have anxiety around
international airports, probably because we grew up *just* post-9/11 when you
got to the airport at least 90 minutes before your flight took off. We also had
2 buses to take to get there, so we basically woke, ate, packed, bussed, and
then boarded our plane.

While we enjoyed the sun, the Spanish, and each other's company, we also
learned a lot about what we *don't* like in our vacations. I'm writing this AC
(after covid), and honestly doubt I will even remember this trip as it's
overshadowed by covid, our wedding, our (hopeful!) trip to Tokyo in the fall,
and other birthday trips to come.
