Getting a Tattoo 
================ 
:date: 2016-03-14 
:tags: experiences
:category: Experiences
:slug: tattoo
:author: Lucy Wyman

I recently decided to get a tattoo for a variety of reasons, some of them
better than others.  I decided to get one because:

#. **I didn't want to be scared of permanently changing my body.**  We make
   decisions that permanently alter the course of our life pretty often, in much
   bigger ways than a tattoo will, and I know I will regret coming to the end
   of my life with no permanent marks.  I have scars and birthmarks, it seemed
   it was time to make a mark that I got to dictate, that represented some
   aspect of myself.

#. **It's a profoundly human experience**, and in general I like to experience
   things other humans have in order to feel as though I've lived my life to
   its fullest.  There are obvious lines I don't cross (ie. heroin), but even
   the process of deciding on a design and getting it has taught me a lot.  If
   you don't believe me, try it out.

#. **I wanted to think long and hard about my life up to this point, and find
   the parts that mattered the most.**  Of course, there's no need to get a
   tattoo in order to do this.  However, I'm about to graduate from college and
   begin The Rest Of My Life,  and for me personally a tattoo seems as good a
   way as any to mark this turning point in my life and attempt to encapsulate
   the last 21 years into something permanent that I can carry with me going
   forward. This isn't to say that I can be boiled down into a single image or
   phrase and have that put on my body, but it is to say that there are some
   key points to represent symbolically that can help solidify my identity at
   this point.

#. **They can be beautiful, and start conversations.** Nuff said.

So, with these intentions in mind, I set about getting a tattoo. In some ways
it was much easier than expected, in that there is a local tattoo parlor that
does high-quality work and is very safe. But on the whole it wasn't exactly
easy, as permanently changing your body using needles probably shouldn't be. 

Choosing a Design
-----------------

I wanted the tattoo to be small, simple, and something I knew I wasn't likely
to regret.  It needed to represent some part of myself that wasn't liable to
change, and that I wouldn't be embarrassed to talk about.  With this criteria
in mind I had a few ideas of things that my tattoo could be "about":

- Portland, OR
- Something very generic + symbolic (ie. an equals sign)

I was wary of quotes, as they seemed less pliable in their meaning, and seemed
more likely to "tire out" so to speak.  Besides, if I really liked a quote, I
had plenty of skin to get other tattoos in the future.

Researching designs brought up a few contenders:

.. figure:: /theme/images/equal-tattoo.jpg
	:align: left
	:width: 30%

.. figure:: /theme/images/sun-watercolor.jpg 
	:align: right
	:width: 30%

.. figure:: /theme/images/rose-tattoo.jpg 
	:align: center
	:width: 30%

After consulting friends and learning more about what kinds of tattoos are
difficult to execute, and which aren't, I settled on this:

.. figure:: /theme/images/my-tattoo.jpg
	:align: center

Without the portland, in plain black ink.

My advice: 

* Go small at first! You have plenty of space to get bigger ones later,
  and you'll know what you're getting yourself into.
* Get line art.  This limits what you can get quite a bit, but again
  line art is so much easier to get, and you'll almost definitely be happier
  with the finally product. You can always work your way up to large, colored
  tats.
* Go with as few colors as possible.  Colors just add time, complexity,
  and money to the tattoo.  It doesn't have to be black and white, but if you
  can turn your design into black and white and still love it, it's much
  easier!

Getting the Tattoo
------------------

Actually getting my tattoo was easy and relatively painless. I had a super
brief consultation with the local parlor to get some questions answered and
show them my design, then made an appointment for a few days later.  The only
advice I received about prepping for getting the tattoo was pretty solid life
advice: drink lots of water, eat a good healthy meal before, get enough sleep.
Standard stuff. I got to my appointment *super* early (like, half an hour
early) because I was so nervous, and spent the time filling out some paperwork
and pacing.  My boyfriend came with me, which was very helpful. It was great
not just to have support there, but someone to talk to and experience this
with.  I said it was fine if he didn't come, but in retrospect I would not want
to get a tattoo alone. So, around 7 the tattoo artist set up the table, showed
me her rendering of the design, and then did this cool paper-to-skin thing so
you could basically see how the tattoo was going to look before getting inked.
It looked great, so we got started! 

My tattoo is on my ribs, which regular tattoo-getters will tell you is among
the more painful spots since it's so close to bone.  It definitely wasn't
comfortable, but my tattoo was so small and simple that it wasn't painful so
much as annoying. It feels like someone is rubbing the tip of a needle on your
skin, not like it's *cutting* you, but just lightly scratch.  If you have a
really sharp pencil, you can try drawing on your skin, and that's about how it
feels.  My tattoo took about 10 minutes from start to finish, and with my beau
to keep me distracted it went by pretty quick.  My tattoo artist was also
incredibly sweet, understanding, and supportive, and made the whole experience
that much more pleasant. Once it was done, I took a look to make sure it all
looked good.  I won't get too cheesy, but it was love at first site. As anyone
is with their first tattoo, I was nervous that I would regret getting something
put permanently on my body, but I knew when I saw it that I had made the right
decision. Crisis: avoided.

.. figure:: /theme/images/my-tat-picture.jpeg 
	:align: center
	:width: 40%

Post-tattoo
-----------

Super cool tattoo lady hooked me up with some tattoo-care products for totally
reasonable and worth-it prices, including a nice soap and lotion.  Since my
tattoo was so small and minimal it never hurt, turned red, itched, or any of
the other possible skin irritation that often come after getting a tattoo.  I
even forgot I had one the next day, and as I was getting ready for bed thought
"OH MY GOD WHAT HAPPENED oh right I got a tattoo".  The lesson: start small!
It's been 100% painless as long as you take good care of it.  It's been exactly
1 week since I got it as of this writing, and by now it feels like a completely
normal and natural part of my body.  

Conclusion 
----------

Overall I'm very happy with my tattoo, and the decision to get it. There are
totally unexpected side effects of empowerment, and my tattoo is not just a
reminder of where I come from but that my body is *mine*, and that I get to
choose what happens to it. I have to admit that my parents explicitly didn't
approve of my getting one, and I was really hurt that they wouldn't support me.
I understand that as parents their job is to keep me safe and avoid regrettable
decisions, which a tattoo very well could be. But (as is hopefully evidenced by
this post!) I put a lot of thought and care into getting one, and wish that
they had been more understanding.  Luckily, it's not very visible, so no one
*has* to know.  Even if they do find out (probably through this post), it's my
body! Yay!  

I'm thrilled that I can carry a piece of my childhood with me into adulthood
now, and know what it's like to be tattooed.  It's almost like being part of a
club, and has already sparked some very interesting and intimate conversations
with co-workers and friends about their tattoos, and how they decided to get
them.  I'm not sure what the best way to end this post is, but I hope it's
been helpful | insightful | interesting! Have an excellent day :) 
