My Favorite Board Games
=======================
:date: 09-05-2018
:tags: favorites
:category: Loves
:slug: favorite-board-games
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: 

Eli and I spent this last weekend at `PAX West`_, and it was an
*incredible* experience. It's like Disneyland in many ways:
there's bright lights and beautiful displays, everyone is trying to
sell you something, and there are *so many lines*. While Eli loves
video games I'm more of a board gamer, so I avoided the biggest crowds
and spent most of my 4 days there playing tabletop. This made
me reflect on what games I already play and love, and what kind of
gamer I am. We tend to play fun, light-to-mid weight games that focus
on interactions between players (either cooperative or competitive),
and are suckers for a good party game. The games we play are
accessible to anyone interested in board gaming, and while these games
are easy to learn and play they're difficult to master and are highly
replayable. Here are the games we keep playing again and again:

.. _PAX West: http://west.paxsite.com/

Party Games
~~~~~~~~~~~

`Codenames`_
------------

The Crowd Pleaser. The Favorite. The All-Around Champion. Codenames is
a great game for game-lovers and game-skeptics alike. It's easy to
learn, plays a big group, and is a good balance of fun and
challenging. It's a very social game, and while Codenames veterans may
have picked up a few tricks newcomers have just as much of a chance at
winning. This is the game we bring to every party.

.. _Codenames: https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/178900/codenames

`Sushi GO`_
-----------

Sushi GO is also a fun and learnable game. It's a sushi-themed
drafting game that's quick and easy to learn. The game theme and
design are adorable, there are enough different iterations on the
'menu' (the set of cards you use) that it's replayable, and it's fun
for game-veterans and new comers alike.

.. _Sushi GO: https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/192291/sushi-go-party

`Coup`_
-------

I have such fond memories of playing Coup with a huge group of friends
while we were in Japan. We would buy dozens Strong Zeros, an alcoholic
soda, and play and eat and have fun. We still laugh about games played
during that month, and the game is quick to learn, social, and
obviously very replayable (over and over and over again for hours). 

.. _Coup: https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/131357/coup

Word Games
~~~~~~~~~~

I really enjoy word games - mostly because I'm decent at them. While
they aren't popular with my current housemates, we have a few
relations who love them even more than I do and can convince others to
play. 

`Boggle`_
---------

One of our housemates is dating a journalist, who loves words and
wordplay. Her favorite game is boggle, and she'll typically score
higher than the rest of us combined. I like that boggle is easy to
learn and teach, that any number of people can play it, and it's fun
to hear what words people come up with. But it's not at all
interactive, so you end up sitting in silence for most of it, and I
would describe it as more academic than fun. There's no real strategy
or social element, it's all about the words you know.

.. _Boggle: https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/1293/boggle

`Scrabble`_
-----------

Actually, in thinking about Scrabble and Boggle, their pros and cons
are pretty similar. It's a classic, easy to learn game that's a fun
way to learn new words. While it's more interactive than Boggle, it's
not going to crack you up or be a 'party game', but is a great low-key
activity for holidays and family get-togethers. I find it's just the
right amount of thinking, and lets your talk to everyone while you
play.

.. _Scrabble: https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/320/scrabble
