Reading Lately: October 2018
============================
:date: 10-28-2018
:tags: books
:category: Books
:slug: reading-lately-october-2018
:author: Lucy Wyman
:image: reading-lately-october-2018.jpg

My lucky-book-streak continues this month, with some truly fantastic
fiction and a small dash of self-help. I also just got about 9 books
in from the library all at the same time, so am looking forward to
spending the weekend curled up with some tea and a lot of books!

Quick aside: did anyone else follow the `Great American Read`_ series
by PBS? I loved the diversity of their list of 100 books, and while I
was disappointed that Harry Potter didn't 'win' it was a fun series to
follow along with.

.. _Great American Read: https://www.pbs.org/the-great-american-read/home/

Here's what I couldn't put down:

`Sadie`_
--------
*Courtney Summers*

.. figure:: theme/images/sadie.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I'll admit I'm not the most perceptive consumer when it comes to
mysteries and thrillers. I *never* see the twist coming, and am putty
in the hands of the author / director. 'Sadie' was no exception, and I
*loved* this YA thriller. The main character, Sadie, was amazingly
layered and unique, and I loved reading the story through her voice.
Her narration is also juxtaposed with a journalist telling the story,
and I appreciated that it didn't feel like the 'storytelling within
storytelling' crutch was used too much. His narration felt genuine,
and gave you both a new perspective on the story and little dribbles
of new information along the way. I was so wrapped up in hearing the
end, I literally got to work 20 minutes late this morning because I
*had* to finish it. Highly highly recommend! 

.. _Sadie: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34810320-sadie

`An Absolutely Remarkable Thing`_
---------------------------------
*Hank Green*

.. figure:: theme/images/an-absolutely-remarkable-thing.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I adore the `Green brothers`_, and while I wouldn't consider myself
part of the fandom I consume a lot of their content, including reading
John Green's books growing up. As such there was a lot of hype around
Hank publishing a book, and I was excited not just to read the book as
a book but to read something that someone I kind of care about in a
celebrity type way wrote. It felt more personal somehow than just
reading any-old book. I don't know why I didn't expect the book to be
great, but I didn't, and *hot dog* was I impressed. Hank's debut novel
is amazing. I love his protagonist and narrator, April May, who is
layered and human and flawed but very likeable. I loved the commentary
on fame, and how fame changes you and what the experience of fame is
like. I loved the whimsy of the sci-fi / mystery robot plot. I loved
the voice of the novel, the funny throw-away lines and how unique each
characters way of thinking was. I can't recommend this book highly
enough, whether you're 13 or 30.

.. _An Absolutely Remarkable Thing: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24233708-an-absolutely-remarkable-thing
.. _Green brothers: https://www.youtube.com/user/vlogbrothers

`Where'd You Go, Bernadette?`_
------------------------------
*Maria Semple*

.. figure:: theme/images/whered-you-go-bernadette.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

While I liked this better than Maria Semple's previous books, I
wouldn't say you *have* to read it. It's a sweet story about a
dysfunctional family (who live in Seattle - it was so fun to recognize
all the place names!) and the crazy antics and adventures the family
finds themselves in. It's being turned into a movie, and while I can't
say I resonate well with the characters I *do* think this will look
great on screen. It was a fun read, and could be a fun film - that
alone makes it worth reading!

.. _Where'd You Go, Bernadette: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13526165-where-d-you-go-bernadette

`From the Corner of the Oval`_
------------------------------
*Beck Dorey-Stein*

.. figure:: theme/images/from-the-corner-of-the-oval.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I was pleasantly surprised by this book - not because I thought it
would be bad, but because I thought it would be different. Rather than
focusing on the political insight and intrigue of working directly
with the President, 'From the Corner of the Oval' focuses much more on
Beck's personal life, as well as her incredible experiences as part of
White House staff. It reads more like a memoir than an episode of the
West Wing, and while some may find this disappointing I read *so much*
of myself in Beck's story. I loved hearing her struggle to find a
sense of identity, to earn respect in a tough job, and to find meaning
in her work. She's a talented writer with a fascinating story.

.. _From the Corner of the Oval: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36758503-from-the-corner-of-the-oval

`Hyperfocus`_
-------------
*Chris Bailey*

.. figure:: theme/images/hyperfocus.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I was expecting this to be a kind-of-dumb self-help book, telling me I
wasn't disciplined enough or whatever and that if I was just *more
focused* then I could focus better. It's actually a great, data-driven
book that includes exercises for improving focus and the science
behind them. The author is also humble and grounded - he doesn't claim
to have all the answers, or that every exercise will 'cure' you
somehow. He encourages the reader to try each exercise and use the
ones that work best for them. He also emphasizes that any lack of
focus isn't your 'fault', or even a 'bad' thing, but that it is
something you may want to have more control over than you currently
do. I found the book effective in giving me strategies to focus on a
task for longer, to be more present in my life, and altogether a very
pleasant read.

.. _Hyperfocus: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36959766-hyperfocus 

`The Coincidence of Coconut Cake`_
----------------------------------
*Amy E. Reichert*

.. figure:: theme/images/coincidence-of-coconut-cake.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I listened to this audiobook *in it's entirety* on a round-trip drive
to Portland, and it was *perfect* for that trip. It's one of those
candy reads that provides lots of room for imagination, and is sweet
and satisfying. I liked that the characters felt real and believable
(definitely not a given in the romance novel genre), and I loved the
food theme. The heroine was strong and independent, the hero flawed
but loveable. It was more chaste than I was expecting, and more of a
rom-com book than a proper romance novel. A quick and easy read, if
you find yourself between better books.

.. _The Coincidence of Coconut Cake: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25650078-the-coincidence-of-coconut-cake
