Reading Lately: April 2019
==========================
:date: 05-07-2019
:tags: books
:category: Books
:slug: reading-lately-april-2019
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: april-2019.jpg

`Wallflower at the Orgy`_
-------------------------
*Nora Ephron*

.. figure:: theme/images/wallflower-at-the-orgy.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

This was the first collection of Nora Ephron essays I read, and while
it was fine it didn't live up to my expectations. My favorite movie
while growing up was 'When Harry Met Sally', and as a young woman
trying to understand my own femininity and place in the world I
thought Ephron would be perfect for me. Instead her essays felt dated
and boring - I found I didn't connect much with her magazine habits
and beauty trend adventures. I wasn't completely turned off, and can
see the great writer beneath the fluffy topics. She's sharp and
confident, and able to describe the things you know intimately but
could never quite find the right words for. As you'll see this didn't
turn me off of Ephron altogether, but it's not what I'd recommend.

.. _Wallflower at the Orgy: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/523071.Wallflower_at_the_Orgy

`I Feel Bad About My Neck`_
---------------------------
*Nora Ephron*

.. figure:: theme/images/i-feel-bad-about-my-neck.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

Ah, *this* is the Nora Ephron I expected. While still a collection of
essays this set was much more reflective and autobiographical. Ephron
discusses everything from beauty standards to food trends to finding
an apartment in New York, and while her references and tone felt dated
I loved reading about a passionate, working mom who wasn't victimizing
or complaining, but observing and appreciating (but also without being
goody-goody? I think only people from New York can pull this off).
I feel like I'm describing it very well, so I'll just say: if you like
WHMS, give this one a go.

*Author's Note*: I've also got Ephron's "I Remember Nothing" in my
queue, but it'll have to wait until May

.. _I Feel Bad About My Neck: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8765.I_Feel_Bad_about_My_Neck

`The Library Book`_
-------------------
*Susan Orlean*

.. figure:: theme/images/library-book.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

Very overrated. I had high hopes for this one - I thought it'd be a
mystery for us library lovers, a thrilling profile of the man who set
the Los Angeles Central Library on fire and why, as well as a love
letter to libraries themselves. It was both those things yet was
*very* unsatisfying. I found Harry Peak was not an interesting or
compelling villain, and that gushing about libraries was more like trying
to convince me libraries were great. I kept thinking "I already agree
with you *where do you think I got this book?*". Don't believe the
hype - listen to `My Favorite Murder`_ instead, or show your support
for libraries by getting a different book.

.. _The Library Book: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39507318-the-library-book
.. _My Favorite Murder: https://www.myfavoritemurder.com

`Conversations with Friends`_
-----------------------------
*Sally Rooney*

.. figure:: theme/images/conversations-with-friends.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

Goodness gracious I had a severe case of overhype this April. Maybe
it's me, or maybe there just weren't that many new books to gush
about....regardless, I thought this was the worst of the overhyped
reads, and perhaps also the most hyped. Everyone is talking about
Sally Rooney, and I *do not get it*. Her characters are moody and
don't make sense, their interactions are brief and tense. The book
felt grey and depressing, the novel equivalent of a mid-January day. I
suppose that's the appeal, but it's not for me. I'd see the movie if
they made it with Saoirse Ronan, but besides that I think this is it
for me and Rooney.

.. _Conversations with Friends: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32187419-conversations-with-friends

`Queenie`_
----------
*Candice Carty-Williams*

.. figure:: theme/images/queenie.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

What I liked most about this book was how it snuck up on you.
Throughout the book Queenie finds herself in increasingly terrible
situations, and often centering on her being an overweight black woman
in the UK. It begins with a breakup with her loving boyfriend, and
spirals from there to getting raped (and not feeling like she could
say no to a man she was flirting with) to having a miscarriage and
losing her job. Told from her perspective though the reader
understands every decision she makes. This book helped me understand
what it's like to be a woman of color, and how the things we judge
people for (how could you have a miscarriage and not know the father?)
are in reality nuanced stories and could easily have happened to us. I
loved that Queenie never felt sorry for herself, yet how she called
out racist and sexist policy and behavior when she saw it. This book
changed how I see the world and understand blackness in the UK/US -
can't recommend highly enough.

.. _Queenie: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36586697-queenie

`Happy City`_
-------------
*Charles Montgomery*

.. figure:: theme/images/happy-city.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

Life changer alert: this book has *completely* changed my life. It's
not an earth-shattering, ground-breaking kind of book but
definitely the right book read at the right time. As Eli and I
move back to Portland we've been thinking about how to 'shape' our
lives there. This book focuses on the design of cities and how city
planners can help make their residents happier, but throughout are
things residents can do to make their cities and communities happier.
Reading this really drove home that Eli and I don't want to own a car
(see what I did there?) and that we should structure our lives in
Portland around not owning one. It got us thinking about how we spend
our time and our money, what things are important to us, and what our
goals are (not suburbia!). On top of all that, the book was
well-researched and well-written, and held my interest the whole time.
Highly, highly recommend (especially if you're moving or have another
big change ahead in your life!).

.. _Happy City: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13330588-happy-city

`So Lucky`_
-----------
*Nicola Griffith*

.. figure:: theme/images/so-lucky.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I'm not usually one for sad books, particularly at such a stressful
time in my life. This one captivated me though, and the first-person
descriptions of having multiple sclerosis were vivid and haunting. I
loved the main character's voice and perspective - the everyday battle
against her own body, and not wanting to be a victim but still needing
help. Her narrative gave me empathy for people with MS and other
illnesses, and helped me see that people aren't defined by their
illness or disabilities. I also loved the narrators disorientation,
and thought the first-person perspective of fear and helplessness
(even when it wasn't due to her MS!) was visceral. This was also a
great audiobook! A tough topic, but 100% worth reading.

.. _So Lucky: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36332157-so-lucky

`George and Lizzie`_
--------------------
*Nancy Pearl*

.. figure:: theme/images/george-and-lizzie.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

This book didn't really come together for me until the end. It was
pretty ho-hum, a perfect slightly-boring antidote to my
crazy-hectic-moving-to-Portland life at the moment, but nothing to
write home about. It's a slow burn, but all the low-lying conflict in
the book builds to a crescendo at the very end that makes the
characters and this long-winded story rewarding. It shows the
complexity and variability of relationships over time well. It's about
coming to terms with your past in order to be happy now, and about
living in the Midwest, and about what it means to have a happy
marriage. I thought this would be another disappointment on my list,
but by the end I was riveted! Tentatively recommend, if you can make
it 5/6ths through a boring read.

.. _George and Lizzie: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33107351-george-and-lizzie
