Reading Lately: January 2019
============================
:date: 02-01-2019
:tags: books
:category: Books
:slug: reading-lately-january-2019
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: liberte-beyonce.jpg

I'm not sure *how* I read so many books this month - I guess this is
what winter does to a person? As a card-carrying Summer Person I
usually hate winter, but for some reason this year I haven't minded it
as much. Maybe Seattle winters are more mild than Portland? Maybe it's
been sunnier than usual? Maybe getting to cuddle with Eli and Luna
each night keeps me warm? Whatever it is, I'm grateful! 

We've got our big trip to Oahu coming up week-after-next (we fly out
February 12), and I think both of us are delirious with anticipation.
We've both started to feel burned out, and I know a week of doing
nothing in the sun will do us both good. 

This month's literature had it's ups and downs. There wasn't anything
I *loved*, but then I think reading some just-ok books gives me an
appreciate for the gems. This post is long, so without further ado
here's what I read in January:

`Eleanor & Park`_
-----------------
*Rainbow Rowell*

.. figure:: theme/images/eleanor-and-park.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I enjoyed this book for the same reasons I think many readers enjoy
it. I loved how real Eleanor and Park were - how they were truly
awkward teenagers, trying to figure life out, and how fast and deeply
they fell for each other. It brought back a lot of fond memories of my
high school years. I was captivated by their family dynamics, and
found it was `moreish` - I wanted to keep reading every chance I
got to find out what would happen. Highly recommend if you're looking
for a modern love story, coming-of-age, and misfit teens.

.. _Eleanor & Park: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15745753-eleanor-park
.. _moreish: https://www.collinsdictionary.com/us/dictionary/english/moreish

`The Last Mrs. Parrish`_
------------------------
*Liv Constantine*

.. figure:: theme/images/the-last-mrs-parrish.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px
 
**Spoiler alert**
 I *really* enjoyed this book, though didn't quite love it. I wish
 that the husband had died in the end - I definitely thought that's what
 "The Last" part of the title was. But I enjoyed reading about strong
 women taking down a horrible man. I thought Amber and Daphne were
 both well-written, layered, mostly sympathetic characters, and the
 changing perspective in the story was *fantastic*. I totally didn't
 see it coming! And then I was HOOKED. Not quite 'Gone Girl' level, but
 an exciting thriller with lady leads.

.. _The Last Mrs. Parrish: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34043643-the-last-mrs-parrish

`South and West`_
-----------------
*Joan Didion*

.. figure:: theme/images/south-and-west.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

This was my first Joan Didion experience, and while I found the
subject revolting I thought her style of writing was some of the best
I've ever read. The way she's able to step outside of the time and
place she's describing and include details that at the time must have
seemed insignificant but which, reading it now, stand out and give so
much color and depth to her travels! Her language is rich, her
attention to detail is limitless, and her perspective is funny and
real and honest. I continue to *loathe* the deep south and everything
it stands for, but fell in love with Joan Didion.

.. _South and West: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32842454-south-and-west

`Tuck Everlasting`_
-------------------
*Natalie Babbit*

.. figure:: theme/images/tuck-everlasting.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I reread this for the first time since reading it as a tween, and
loved it just as much. It's so sweet and nostalgic in the way reading
YA is, and I the moral of answering the question of 'why things die'
really resonated with me. I'm among those that thinks on my mortality
often, and I always worry that I'm not making the most of my life.
"Tuck Everlasting" reminded me that to have unlimited time would be
even worse, and that death can be both scary and a natural part of
human life. It made the prospect of dying less terrifying, and told a
lovely story along the way.

.. _Tuck Everlasting: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84981.Tuck_Everlasting

`A Place for Us`_
-----------------
*Fatima Farheen Mirza*

.. figure:: theme/images/a-place-for-us.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

This book wasn't for me - I don't think because it was a bad book, but
because it was *so boring*. I made it halfway through before giving up
for greener pastures. I found I just didn't care at all about any of
the characters, and was only occasionally enraged at the injustice of
the gender norms. I think writing in third-person is hard like that -
while I appreciated the switching perspective, and stories from each
character, I never felt like I knew any of the characters.  The
timeline is difficult to keep track of, and there's just no depth to
anyone in the story. I just couldn't muddle through such a big book
of nothing.

.. _A Place for Us: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36840397-a-place-for-us

`The Red Car`_
--------------
*Marcy Dermansky*

.. figure:: theme/images/the-red-car.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I was surprised by how much I liked this novel, both while reading it
and on reflection. I think it was exactly what I needed at this time
in my life. It's about reflecting on your life so far, trying to
figure out what you really want, and letting life just tumble you
along instead of trying to control it for a time. I loved the dreamy
quality of the book, and how the author writes each of the main
characters thoughts out in such a realistic way, like how she keeps
forgetting then re-realizing that she took time off of work. That's SO
MUCH how I think, and I've never read that idiosyncrasy captured in a
character so well. I liked the mystery of the car, and that it was
never really solved. I honestly kind of liked that there wasn't a lot
of resolution. It felt very California, very outside of time and
place, very akin to how the character felt in their life. I wouldn't
call this my favorite book of the year, but I'm surprised in
reflecting on it how much I enjoyed living in Leah's head for a week.

.. _The Red Car: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34082140-the-red-car

`Early Work`_
-------------
*Andrew Martin*

.. figure:: theme/images/early-work.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

I almost forgot to include this in the monthly update, which I think
sums up pretty well what I thought of it. This was the most mediocre
book ever. I wouldn't even say it was "bad" - there was nothing to
dislike about it because there was nothing to think about it. Some
writer who is SO full of himself treats people around him like
garbage, and gets away with it, and everyone acts like it's normal as
always happens. The girlfriends both take it in stride and continue
living their way more interesting and successful lives, dragging him
along for god knows why reason. He's not even philosophical, or
creative, or interesting. He's a mashed potato sandwich dipped in the
hot sauce of casual misogyny. Actually, now that I'm writing about it,
maybe I *didn't* like this book, and just kept reading for the dog.

.. _Early Work: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36263594-early-work

`Truth and Beauty`_
-------------------
*Ann Patchett*

.. figure:: theme/images/truth-and-beauty.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 300px

Ann Patchett's descriptions are unparalleled. She paints such a vivid
picture of her friend, describing her physicality and interactions so
well you start to think you know Lucy. Her re-telling is wonderful in
how she's able to remember what it was like to experience the story at
the time, as well as in retrospect. I remember her describing 9/11,
and saying "At the time that's how we thought of them: missing". That
kind of perspective is so hard to cultivate, and she does it
seamlessly. This is a beautiful and heart-breaking story of
friendship, and it's trials and tribulations and rewards and
adventures.

.. _Truth and Beauty: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3686.Truth_and_Beauty
