San Francisco 2016: An Adventure
================================
:date: 2016-12-20
:tags: experiences, travel, tech
:category: Experiences
:slug: san-francisco-2016
:author: Lucy Wyman

Hello, beautiful reader! I hope you are enjoying the holiday season,
and are looking forward to some quality time with the people you love
in the coming weeks. Before the madness really started Eli and I got
to spend a week in San Francisco while he visited `CoreOS`_, the tech
startup he interned for this Fall. They were nice enough to get an
AirBnB big enough for the two of us, so I tagged along and took the
week off to explore the city! This post is one part tourists guide to
San Francisco, one part meditations on Silicon Valley, and one part
processing the trip and telling loved ones about it. 

.. _CoreOS: https://coreos.com/

I'll admit: before this trip the
prospect of working in Silicon Valley felt dire. Anywhere but there!
I thought every engineer would be working 80 hours weeks, a bunch of
20-somethings with nothing better to do than program all day and prove
they were smarter than *everyone ever* including me.  I thought of the
Bay as soulless and scrappy, the very definition of rat-race.  And I
wanted no part in it. With some pretty dramatic notions, I came into
this trip like I was interviewing the city to see if I could work
there some day. The beating heart of my industry is there, and to rule
it out completely would be to rule out working for some really great
organizations. I wanted to see if I was justified in categorically
refusing to work in San Francisco, or if I should give it a chance.
I'm happy to report that by the end of the week, San Francisco had won
me over!  Here's how it happened.

What I Did
----------

Since Eli spent most of each day working, I had the hours and city to
myself. We were staying in the lower Mission district, so I spent most
of my time walking from there to some of the famous sights and
neighborhoods of San Francisco. There's no better way to get a feel
for a city than just walking through it. I also got to spend the
evenings with Eli's coworkers, talking about CoreOS, school, and
living in the Bay. 

What I Loved
------------

The first thing I did on my first day in the city was venture to the
top of the **Twin Peaks**, a hill in the middle of San Francisco that
offers an incredible 360Â° view of the city. The (walk|climb) was short
but pretty, much of it through parks and sleepy neighborhoods, and the
view from the top was breathtaking.  

The next day, I visited the **San Francisco Botanical Garden** and
**Japanese Garden**, in Golden Gate Park.  Honestly, I expected Golden
Gate Park to be this thriving, humming center, similar to Central Park
in New York.  I thought it would be filled with people enjoying
nature, wandering around, sitting on benches and watching life go by.
Instead, it was pretty empty.  But I can tell the city has invested a
lot of money in cleaning it up, and trying to turn it into a Central
Park for San Francisco. The lawns are beautiful, there are tons of
paths and benches and fountains, and there's a lot to see! Even in the
dead of winter, the Botanical Gardens and Japanese Gardens were
beautiful.  Well curated, inviting, and expansive, they were the kind
of places you could get lost in.  It made me miss Forest Park in
Portland.

A few days later, I found myself wandering through the **Financial
District**. Specifically the areas just north and south of Market
street, I found *beautiful* historic buildings, the kind with lots of
brick and exposed concrete interiors. Filled with fancy shops and
offices and decorated with Christmas lights, these neighborhoods were
absolutely magical, and the reason I fell for the city. I could see
myself walking up and down these streets each weekend, enjoying the
luxury and beauty around me for hours. This was by far my favorite
thing to see, so much so that I went back 2 more times.  Highly,
highly recommend.

Nearby, I also enjoyed visiting **Union Square**.  It was totally
packed and crazy, but it was also a *great* place to just sit and
people watch. If you're at all into bustling city centers, this is
definitely the place to be!

Lastly, I enjoyed **the Marina**, between Ghirardelli Square and the Golden
Gate Bridge. It's a beautiful stretch of beaches and parks, with
beautiful views and nice walkways. If you're visiting either of those
land marks, definitely take the extra half hour to walk along the
beach for a bit. You won't be sorry!

What I Should Have Skipped
--------------------------

**Fisherman's Wharf** and **Pier 39** were very touristy and
uninteresting, filled with cheap knick-knack shops and nothing unique
or distinctly San Francisco. Unless you're craving some In n' Out,
you're better off spending you're time elsewhere.

**Haight-Ashbury** was boring at best, unsafe at worst. I thought it
would be like the beloved Hawthorne street in Portland, full of
cute and eclectic local shops, but ended up treading on used needles
as I walked past smoke shop after smoke shop. When I saw one of the
many idle young men along the street pull out a large knife to show to
his friend, I veered onto a side street and decided there were better
things to see in the city.  

On my last day exploring the city I finally made it up to the **Golden
Gate Bridge**. The American icon! The Gate to the West! Don't get me
wrong, the bridge is beautiful.  I highly recommend *seeing* it.  My
mistake was walking across it.  It's incredibly loud and windy (like,
might blow you over windy), with huge trucks and buses rushing by just
inches away. The bridge is far above the water, and the railing that stands between you
and certain death is not nearly high enough to actually make you feel
safe.  There are lots of people and *kids* and *bicyclists* going all
directions that only add to the chaos and disorientation. Really, it
feels like Australia: everything is trying to kill you, one way or
another. It's also *long* -- it took me ~40 minutes to get all the way
across, including 2 long stops at the pillars to take some deep
breaths and text Eli my last will and testament. So drive across. Or
just don't cross it at all. There's nothing on the other side, *trust
me*. 

Conclusion
----------

Overall, San Francisco proved itself to have more character and
coziness than we expected. I loved exploring the city, and
unexpectedly found that I could see myself living there for a few
years, working a fancy schmancy tech job in the city. We aren't making
any plans yet, and who knows what the future holds for us, but it
turns out it might actually be San Francisco.  Who's to say?  I'm
never certain of how to end these posts, but thanks for reading, and
have a lovely day!
