Summer Reads 2018
=================
:date: 2018-06-03
:tags: books
:category: Books
:slug: summer-reads-2018
:author: Lucy Wyman
:image:

If February and March were a drought of good books, then April and May
have seen downpours! I've been reading up a storm based on
recommendations from `book clubs`_, `podcasts`_, and `blogs`_, and
have found myself reading one great book after another! Great might
actually be a bit of a strong word for these books -- maybe fun is
more appropriate? Regardless, these books are ~perfect~ for the
upcoming summer months, with it's beach trips, long drives, airplane
rides, and lazy Sundays.

.. _book clubs: https://girlybookclub.com/
.. _podcasts: https://badonpaperpodcast.com/
.. _blogs: https://nycbookgirl.com/2018/06/07/summer-reading-guide/

`The Dry`
---------
*Jane Harper*

This is the book all your Liane-Moriarty-fan friends are going to be
talking about this summer. Set in a rural Australian town, a father,
mother, and son are found dead on their farm leaving only their baby
daughter alive. Initially suspected to be a murder-suicide by the
father figure, 

.. _The Dry: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27824826-the-dry

`When Rishi Met Dimple`
-----------------------
*Sandhya Menon*

This was a tremendously enjoyable YA novel; candy read to the max. I
loved both protagonists, and appreciated what layered and well-rounded
characters they were. Their 'issues' felt very realistic, and the
events of the book didn't feel as contrived as romance and especially
YA romance can often feel. I also of course loved the technical
setting of the book, and a strong female lead. Highly recommended easy
reading!

.. _When Rishi Met Dimple: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28458598-when-dimple-met-rishi

`Pachinko`
----------
*Min Jin Lee*

I read this for a book club, and since there were approximately 1
million holds on the audio book and e-book at the Library, I ended up
picking up the physical hard-cover copy of it. This is the first
physical book I've read at least since college, probably since high
school, and I'll admit I was a little worried I had forgotten how to
read physical books. But not so! I surprised myself by reading this
600 page book in just 5 days, and was *riveted*. I didn't expect I
would like the book itself, much less in book-form, but found myself
reading it every chance I got. I loved the focus on characters and not
events, the way that despite triumphs and tragedies life continues to
go on, and the way we see social changes reflected in the characters.

.. _Pachinko: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29983711-pachinko

`The Royal We`
--------------
*Heather Cocks*

Another candy read ðŸ™ƒ  but that's what summer is for, right?? I loved
this royal wedding fan-fic, and while the royal wedding has passed us
by (cries) we can still read about royal wedding drama right? 

.. _The Royal We: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22875451-the-royal-we

`The Sisterhood of the Travelling Pants`
----------------------------------------
*Ann Brashares*

A classic! I re-read this recently (in one day, no less) to celebrate
the arrival of summer, and was surprised by how well it stood the test
of time and aging.  Perhaps part of my love is for the nostalgia of
reading it when I was growing up, but I fell right back in love with
the 4 heroines and their friendship. We don't write about female
friendship enough, and these ladies are truly inspiring! More like
this please thank you.

.. _The Sisterhood of the Travelling Pants: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/452306.The_Sisterhood_of_the_Traveling_Pants
