20 for 2020
===========
:date: 01-01-2019
:tags: 
:category:
:slug: 
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img:

I started this post `last year`_ with "I usually hate New Years, but...". This
year I'm going to come right out and say it: I hate New Years. All of January,
really. It's cold, wet, and dark, without the joy and lights of Christmas. Bah, humbug.

Luckily I've given myself a lot to look forward to this winter. We're visiting
my uncle and cousins in Napa at the end of January, then jetting off to Cancun
for my birthday, and I can't wait to see my family (and the sun) again. 

.. _last year: http://blog.lucywyman.me/19-for-2019.html

I think there are a finite number of these big 'life changes' you can have:
graduate from high school, graduate from university, move, travel, get married,
get a dog, have babies, start a new job. We're starting to run low on exciting
life changes, particularly given we don't want to have kids for at least a few 
more years, and I worry that our life will settle into a rut in the meantime.
While 2020 will be 'The Year of the Wedding' (and hopefully 'The Year Elizabeth
Warren Becomes President'), it'll also be the start of our lives post-wedding.

1. Get married!
2. Train myself to sleep on my back
3. Submit a crossword to the NYT
4. Go to at least 5 spanish meetups
5. Run a sub-7 minute mile
6. Sign up for my own health insurance
7. Get a new bike
8. Host board games with friends at least 3 times
9. Take 2 hikes in Portland that I've never done
10. Fill up a notebook with notes from work
11. Do something exciting after the wedding. Our lives have been in constant
    flux ever since leaving school: moving, getting a dog, getting engaged.
    After our wedding, I'm not sure what the next 'phase' of life will look
    like. It's easy to settle into a rut. I want to ensure that I have a new,
    exciting phase of life that doesn't involve a baby or 60 hour work weeks.
12. Volunteer at least 3 times
13. Meditate before bed
14. Go camping for the first time
15. Start composting
16. Zero plastic to-go utensils or containers
17. Read a science fiction book
18. Send a letter in the mail
19. Buy an ornament on our international trips
20. Go to a concert
