Desserts I Dream About
======================
:date: 2018-05-01
:tags: food
:category: Experiences
:slug: desserts-i-dream-about
:author: Lucy Wyman
:image:

I've always had a sweet tooth. Chocolate, caramel, cake, pastries,
fruit. Dessert is my favorite meal, and sugar is my love language. I
don't tend to eat sweets very often because they aren't so good for
you in large and frequent doses, but when I do indulge it can be a
transcendental experience. I can trace my life through memorable
desserts, whether it's going to New Seasons late at night with my mom
to split a slice of `Bavarian Cream Banana Cake`_ or the cold
strawberry soup I had on a cruise ship 12 years ago. Like how many
people associate smells with memories, these desserts remind of me of
where I was when I had them and of how I felt at the time. Each one
has a story, and the decadence of the dessert along with the nostalgia
of the story makes these sweet treats special.

`Papa Haydn Scharffen Berger Bombe`_
------------------------------------

This might not be the best dessert to start with since I don't have a
particular story behind it. It's just a really dang good dessert.
That's all.

.. _Papa Haydn Scharffen Berger Bombe: http://www.papahaydn.com/papa-east-desserts/

`Cacao Drinking Chocolate`_
---------------------------

When I first went to Cacao with my mom I was expecting regular hot
chocolate, which is perfectly fine as long as there's whipped cream
thank you very much. While the cacao drinking chocolate doesn't come
with whipped cream it is *absolutely nothing like hot chocolate*. It's
like how monkeys and humans share ninety-whatever percent of their
DNA: they are so similar and yet one *invented computers* while the
other throws poop. The only bad part about the drinking chocolate is
that you can never drink hot chocolate again without being a little
disappointed.

.. _Cacao Drinking Chocolate: https://cacaodrinkchocolate.com/

`Pot de Creme`_
---------------

I remember the day I had this: it was August 26th of 2017. We had
spent the day at the Oregon State Fair for my mom's birthday, an
annual family tradition, and were hosting my parent's friend Bill from
out of town. We decided to go to a nice place for dinner to celebrate,
and after *much* research found ourselves at the `Ringside Fish
House`_ in downtown Portland. 

My mom and I both ordered the 'Theater 3-course Special' (highly
recommend), because despite a pot de creme not being the dessert we
would choose the rest of the meal was just what we wanted, and at a
great price (I had my eye on the Spice Almond Orange Cake for dessert,
but a pot de creme would do). The meal was excellent, but we didn't
have high expectations for the desserts we had settled for. When the
Milk Chocolate Pot de Creme (the current menu states it's a Malted
Vanilla, but I know ours were Milk Chocolate) arrived, we dug in. And
then we died and went to heaven. This Pot de Creme was silky, rich,
the perfect texture and flavor. Perhaps it was because we weren't
expecting it, or perhaps it's because Ringside uses actual unicorn
hair in their desserts. But it was unquestionably the best dessert
I've ever had. And lucky for me, if there's anyone who appreciates a
great dessert like I do, it's my mom. We reveled in the experience,
passing our bowls around for others to try, and bringing the
conversation to a jolting halt for the rest of the meal. 

I haven't been back since, and cannot vouch for the Vanilla Malt
flavor (yet). But if you're looking for something otherworldly, this
is your place. 

.. _Pot de Creme: http://www.ringsidefishhouse.com/
.. _Ringside Fish House: http://www.ringsidefishhouse.com/

`New Seasons Bavarian Cream Banana Cake`_
-----------------------------------------

I'm fuzzy on when this memory is from, but I remember as a teenager
driving to the New Seasons in Sellwood late at night with my mom just
to share this Bavarian Cream Banana Cake. I'll admit I'm usually more
of a chocolate-dessert person than a fruit-dessert person (as you can
tell by this list), but this cake is *divine*. It's light and fluffy,
spongy, and overwhelmed with thick whipped cream. This cake reminds me
that there are days that are really rough, that you get to the end of
and don't want but need something to turn it around. It's a reminder
that it's ok to indulge late at night, to want something sweet and
cloud-like, to call ahead and make sure they still have some. Though
not "decadent" this cake represents indulgence to me, and being kind
to yourself. 

.. _New Seasons Bavarian Cream Banana Cake: https://www.copymethat.com/r/cKPakSW/new-seasons-banana-bavarian-cake/

`Sky High Salted Panorama Porter Brownie`_
------------------------------------------

Considering this is the only thing on the dessert menu at `Sky High
Brewing`_, you wouldn't expect it to be that great. A dessert to
satiate your wailing toddler, or keep you awake later in the night.
But this brownie is out of this world. It's huge, warm, and deeply
chocolatey. It's fudgy and thick, the kind that sticks to the roof of
your mouth, and is just as salty as it is sweet. For when you want --
no, need -- something deeply chocolate to cure what ails.

I shared this with a friend the day after a particularly bad day. I
don't remember what had gone wrong, but I'm assuming it had something
to do with a boy or a particularly stressful test. Whatever it was, I
was in tears and my friend said "Let's talk about it over a brownie".
While the talking obviously helped more than the brownie, this brownie
was exactly what I needed at that moment: something filling and rich,
thick and full of life. I'll always remember the kindness my friend
showed me that day, and know where to take someone when they've had a
bad day.

.. _Sky High Salted Panorama Porter Brownie: http://skyhighbrewing.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Food-Menu-5.24.17.pdf
.. _Sky High Brewing: http://skyhighbrewing.com/

`Interzone Honey Cardamom Latte`_
---------------------------------

We met freshman year in the Honors College Dorm, hanging out in the
same common-area studying for classes. 

`Sprinkles Cupcakes`_
---------------------

The one at `The Grove`_, obviously.  
