Reflections on 2019
===================
:date: 12-29-2019
:tags: experiences
:category: Experiences
:slug: reflections-on-2019
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: 

Boy, time has a way of stretching itself out. I know most people chorus "Time
flies!" when reflecting on the year, but for me time might be a snail. It takes
it's time, it mosies by, it enjoys the scenery. It leaves a slimy trail over
everything - ok, it's not a perfect metaphor.

January 2019 feels like it was 10 years ago. I can't believe I was
*living in Seattle* then - and thought we'd be staying there for the forseeable
future. I can't believe I hadn't started going to Orange Theory yet, or met any
of the friends I've made this year. I wasn't ENGAGED! Or
knee-deep in wedding planning. I know I sound like a broken record, but each
year my life looks completely different from the previous year. It's exciting,
and I love that I get to savor my time, that it elongates. There are so many
moments that feel important this year, which I think is why time feels slow. I
want to maintain that going forward, especially after the wedding.

Orange Theory
-------------

One of my `19 for 2019`_ items was to try a new workout class. Previously I had
been rising at 4 am, trudging to Planet Fitness, and hanging out on an
elliptical for 30 minutes while watching HGTV. It was fine, enjoyable even, but
not inspiring. Fitness has always been a big part of my life, and I wanted to
find a friends I could work out with, as well as a better work out. We tried
Orange Theory during one of their promotions in late January and never looked
back. It's expensive, but worth every penny in how much happier it makes me. We
originally went to the West Seattle location, which got us hooked, but didn't realize 

Hawaii
------

.. figure:: theme/images/hawaii-2019-1.jpg
    :align: left
    :height: 400px

.. figure:: theme/images/hawaii-2019-2.jpg
    :align: right
    :width: 400px

   February in Hawaii

The best money I ever spent was flying out of Seattle 4 days early to avoid the
snow. I called Eli the day after I landed and he casually mentioned that THE
POWER WAS OUT and I knew I had made the best decision of my life as I took
another sip of my pina colada and looked out over the ocean. It was a cool 75Â°
in Honolulu that day. What I loved most about Hawaii is that there are no
landmarks or museums you must see - the whole bit is to just relax and enjoy
the sun. I spent 10 days just walking up and down the beach, listening to
audiobooks or the ocean, and enjoying being ankle deep in sand instead of snow.
We did a few gorgeous hikes, and maybe saw a movie? But the thrill was in being
there.

Moving to Portland
------------------

After nearly a year of searching, Eli landed a new job at `Cloud Bolt`_, a
Portland tech startup located in Revolution Hall of all places. We moved to an
apartment that was located within walking distance of both my and Eli's offices
(*so lucky* our offices are that close together), and have loved living there.
I really enjoyed `living in Seattle`_, particularly living with friends and
experiencing a new city. But I also deeply missed our friends and family in
Portland, and missed working from the Puppet office there. I don't regret
moving to Seattle for a moment, but I'm also so glad we came back. This last
year has felt like coming home, and has meant we get to spend more quality time
with our families, have started a DnD campaign with my good friends from high
school, and that we feel at home. 

.. _Cloud Bolt: https://www.cloudbolt.io/
.. _living in Seattle: https://blog.lucywyman.me/a-year-in-seattle.html

No Car
------

When we moved to Portland we also "gave our car away"....to Eli's mom. This was
something we'd been thinking about for a while, for a number of reasons: cars
are expensive, cars contribute to pollution, they disconnect you from your
surrounding environment, and they're a hassle to maintain. Plus we knew living
in Portland, we'd likely be able to live car-free relatively easily. We chose
our apartment location to accomodate living without a car (including putting
some of the money we'd save each month towards a higher rent), and haven't
looked back.

Prepare yourselves for the anti-car rave. I love not having a car. Mostly I
love that I never have to worry about it. I never have to fix the windshield
wipers, or get gas, or store it, or think about someone breaking into it. I
never have to drive it and risk hitting someone, or being hit. I also love
biking and bussing - because we live centrally it rarely takes much longer than
driving, and is a more engaging and interesting way to travel. I can feel the
wind in my hair and smell the trees in the summer, and can read or watch the
city go by on the bus. This rave may be starting to sound holier-than-thou, and
that's cause it is. You should get rid of your car. 

Budapest
--------

.. figure:: /theme/images/budapest-2019.jpg
    :align: left
    :height: 400px

I got to go to Budapest, Hungary this summer for Puppet's `Contributor
Summit`_, which was a great time. I didn't get to spend as much time exploring
Budapest as I might have liked, given I was there for work, but it's so
rewarding to connect with Puppet enthusiasts and my European colleagues. I met
some of the nicest, funniest people on that trip and hope I can reconnect with
some folks in the future!

Summer of Fun
-------------

This isn't a single event, but we had a lot of fun this summer. I was energized
by being back in Portland with friends, and was excited to reacquiant myself
with my hometown. We floated the river, and went to the `Rose Garden`_, 

Engagement
----------

.. figure:: /theme/images/engaged.jpg
    :align: center
    :height: 400px
