On Learning How to Be Respected
===============================
:date: 2016-10-17
:tags: experiences, tech
:category: Experiences
:slug: respect
:author: Lucy Wyman

**DISCLAIMER**: My experiences are entirely my own and don't
necessarily reflect the experiences of others, including other women
at Company X. 

It's no secret that there's an `incredible shortage`_ of women in the
tech industry, and even less of a secret that `women`_ `are`_ `treated`_
`differently`_ `than`_ `men`_, particularly in tech (read about `my
experiences with this here`_). This discrimination manifests itself in
a lot of ways, but for the most part it comes down to a single fact:
**we think it's ok to disrespect women**.  Often times this is
completely subconscious, which doesn't absolve us of responsibility
but does point out how deeply ingrained in us sexism and the belief
that women are less-than is. I, too, am guilty of assuming my friend's
pronoun-less colleague is a "he", and taking Bob's arguments over
Alice's even if hers are a little bit strongerÂ¹.  So when I recently
took a job at Company X, I unconsciously expected some of this bias to
color my daily interactions. I didn't even think about it; of course
it was something I would have to deal with. I was a lady programmer at
the bottom of the corporate totem pole. Why should men with 20+ years
of experience in the field listen to me?

Against all of my unconscious and grim expectations my co-workers at
Company X treat me as a qualified peer.  They ask for my input and
thoughts on important decisions. They pause and *listen* when I speak,
considering what I say with as much weight as they would anyone else
on the team. They don't laugh when I ask a question, and even point
out that it's *great* that I'm asking questions and should continue to
do so if I don't know something.  They explain things with patience
and clarity and not an ounce of condescension, and have taken entire
man-days to help get me up to speed on specific projects and
technologies.  Working for Company X, and specifically with this team,
has given me a greater understanding of how to be respectful as well
as be respected.  I realized all of the little things that my peers at
university said and did -- that *I also* said and did -- that
indicated a lack of respect and awareness, and am slowly learning to
not do those things. I'm also learning how to command respect *the
right way*.  Commanding respect doesn't mean not asking "dumb"
questions, or always being right, or being the most knowledgeable
person in the room.  It's about 

What's most amazing is that all of this is done without any fanfare.
It was taken for granted that I was an intelligent, worthy team member
who has as much to contribute as anyone else on the team. My ideas
were always measured equally, and without the obvious effort
or uneasiness of those learning to respect women.  It's an attitude I
hope I can teach my daughters, that I can carry with me in all of my
future interactions.

[1] Being concious of that bias has helped me stop doing those things,
but it takes time and concious effort to do so. 

