Spring Reads 2017
=================
:date: 2017-03-30
:tags: books, loves
:category: Books
:slug: spring-reads-2017
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: 

I don't know about you, but this has felt like the longest winter.
Between weeks of snow, endless (ongoing) rain, and a malfunctioning
office thermostat, I'm ready to pack up my sweaters for a while and
enjoy some strawberries. Let's put some sunscreen to use! 

I know this is a little too late to be a Spring Break reading list,
but with sunnier days ahead and some good family holiday weekends, I
hope you take some time this spring to slow down, head outside, and
enjoy a good book. Listen while you spring clean, or mow the lawn! Or
just plain lounge around, paperback in hand. Here's what I've been
loving lately:

Kitchens of the Great Midwest
-----------------------------
*By*

`Kitchens of the Great Midwest`_ is just about the sweetest book.
Following the life of Eva Thorvald through the eyes of those around
her, this book details the joys and pains of growing up in the
midwest. Filled with food and a kindness only midwesterners can
muster, KotGM will be the sunshine you need on those rainy spring
days. 

How Everything Became War, and the Military Became Everything
-------------------------------------------------------------
*By Rosa Brooks*

Despite it's tongue-twisting title, `How Everything Became War, and
the Military Became Everything`_ might be the best book I read all
year. The military has never been part of my family or culture, yet as
an American has tremendous impact on my life. A former Pentagon
reporter, Rosa Brooks brings incredible insight into the current state
of the military, and how it got to where it is. What influence does it
yield? Why? What are the consequences of that? I learned *so much*
reading this book, and like all the best books it gave me new
perspective and understanding of the world we live in. 

The Magnolia Story
------------------
*By Chip and Joanna Gaines*

I know I know I know I know I know. Judge all you want, I am
head-over-heels for Chip and Joanna Gaines, and their book `The
Magnolia Story`_ did not disappoint. They're so funny! And cute!
Perfect for spring cleaning and flower gazing.

Eligible
--------

Hot off of `Powell's Staff Picks`_, this modern `Pride and Prejudice`_
retelling is 
