How To Adult: A Guide
=====================
:date: 2017-03-02
:tags: experiences
:category: Experiences
:slug: how-to-adult
:author: Lucy Wyman
:img: 

When did we become adults? Was it during our ba(r|t) mitzvahs? Our
18th birthdays? The first year our parents didn't declare us as
dependents on their taxes? Was it the first time we spent the day
doing laundry and grocery shopping, or the first time we willfully
neglected to do those things and ate peanut butter for dinner instead? 
I guess the answer is all of these, but I still can't quite come to
call myself an "adult". Not because I don't think that I'm ready for
adulthood, but because being an adult is *so different* than I thought
it would be. There are so many little and big things that no one tells
you, so I thought I should shoulder the responsibility. Here are the
things I've encountered (so far) that you need to know about being an
adult in the world.

Things That Are Great
---------------------

Taxes
~~~~~

"Only 2 things in life are certain: Death and taxes". Yes, this
country's tax system is impossibly complicated and full of loop holes,
and our Congress will continue to debate about it until kingdom come.
But when it comes to you and me, doing our taxes? Surprisingly
not-so-bad. There are innumerable services, online and in-person, to
help you do your taxes, and unless you own a business or somesuch they
are generally straightforward and take less than half an hour. I think
my family uses `TaxAct`_, and we just sit down one weekend in February
or March and get it done. If all of my interactions with the US
government were this easy, I would be a very pleased human. Plus, as a
die-hard liberal, I *love* paying taxes. I grew up in public schools
and libraries, and think my money is much better spent paving roads
and building beautiful parks than on *one more pretty dress* that I
definitely don't need. 

.. _TaxAct:

Voting
~~~~~~


Things That Are Less Great
--------------------------

Insurance
~~~~~~~~~

Insurance is to millennials as taxes are to our parents. It's a
broken, horrible system full of terrible people (and a few gems). But
we "need" to do it (do we though? I mean, yes we do...but do we?). Did
you know your (or at least my) car insurance expires every 6 months,
and you have to get one of those new cards in the mail (which *never
ever* gets lost or spilled on or anything), and of course it's illegal
to drive without your handy *physical paper insurance card*. Heaven
forbid anything like that be accessible on the star trek device we all
carry nowadays. **That would be crazy**. Now, let's say you're in a
minor fender bender. So minor, you can't even see it on either persons
car. You still have to take a shit ton of pictures, drive *directly*
to your insurance persons office (which is on the other side of town),
have them fill out a gazillion forms for 2 hours while they tell you
about the time they hit and killed a dog, and then you get to pray
that this doesn't cost you thousands of dollars. Hope you didn't have
any plans for the rest of your day! Oh, and I hope your *first* 
thought when you're in this minor bender is
"I should go visit the 100 year old woman I met 2 years ago in her
wood-paneled dungeon 45 minutes away and do paperwork for a few
hours!". Because if it's not, you can be taken to court and end up
talking to lawyers *on your birthday* more than *2 years* after the
incident. And have we talked about health insurance yet? Life
insurance? Renters' insurance?

Insurance assumes the worst of people. Insurance guards it's money
jealously, and has no sympathy for you. Insurance demands that you be
stressed, that you worry for days, and that even a minor slip cost
you. Insurance is ruthless, and merciless, and heartless. Insurance
doesn't need you, *you* need *it*. At least with Comcast, you get
internet when you're done dealing with their customer service people.
Insurance? You get a kick in the groin and an ulcer. Which they don't
cover.

School Taught You The Wrong Skills
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This isn't 100% true. But the set of skills that school teaches you
and the set of skills that my day job values are a venn diagram, 2
separate circles with some overlap. In the middle are invaluable
talents: how to get up early, how to focus on a task, how to thrive on
delayed gratification. At the same time, I started working a 9to5 and
felt wholly unprepared by school. School rewards individual work, done
not only without peers but without resources we all have available.
School also rewards knowledge, rather than process. I thought to be
smart was to know a lot of things, or be able to understand complex
ideas. Of course, in some sense it is. There's more to being smart
than that though. The best engineers I work with aren't the best
because they have the most information inside their heads. They 
