Moving To Seattle
=================
:date: 2018-03-22
:tags: experiences
:category: Experiences
:slug: moving-to-seattle
:author: Lucy Wyman
:image:

We moved to Seattle! Eli was offered a job as a system administrator
at this little startup called `Nordstrom`_, which is based in Seattle.
Lucky for us, a friend from college was already living in Seattle, and
was looking for a cheaper living situation. Another friend works
remotely (read: from anywhere), and was also looking for a more stable
living situation. Fast-forward to March and we are moving in together! 

It is a truth universally acknowledging that moving is really f***ing
stressful. From finding a place (honestly, this was very time
consuming but also fun), to packing all of your earthly belongings
onto a vehicle, to cancelling your gas and changing your mailing
address and registering your car and saying goodbye to all your
friends and...you get my point. And I still haven't done my taxes yet.
But the light at the end of the tunnel is going from living in a 150
sq ft studio apartment, to living in a beautiful house in a beautiful
new city with the man I love. Well worth it, if you ask me :)

Amid the chaos of moving, I honestly don't think it's really "sunk in"
yet. Or perhaps I'm just so over the moon about starting this next
chapter of my life, I don't feel sad about leaving Portland. Don't get
met wrong, I *love* Portland. Portland made me who I am, and I
consider it a central part of my identity. I have a `tattoo`_ of the
place for goodness sake. But I feel so ready to explore a new place,
to find a new favorite bakery and a new community and to make new
friends. And more than anything I feel ready to start my life with
Eli. 

.. _Nordstrom:
.. _tattoo:
