PBS 100 Great American Reads
============================
:date: 2018-06-08
:tags: books
:category: Books
:slug: pbs-100-reads
:author: Lucy Wyman
:image:

PBS just released their `100 Great American Reads`_ challenge, along
with a `quiz`_ of how many of the books you've read. While reading
through the list I was struck by how with each book I had read I
remembered the events around reading the book more than the content of
the book itself. Much like how the smell of grass clippings and
barbecue will always remind me of my dad, I realized the power of
these books was not just to communicate powerful ideas and tell great
stories but to remind us of who and where we were when we read them.
When I think about "Pride and Prejudice", I don't just recall the
feeling of Elizabeth reading The Letter, or Colin Firth emerging from
a pond soaking wet (though trust me, I definitely recall both!). I
remember my friend Mackenzie, who's spoken at conferences about Jane
Austen and spent our childhoods reading and obsessing over each of her
books, most of all P&P. I remember sleepovers watching the BBC
version, and reading the book for our senior English class, and making
jokes that so-and-so was "Such a Mary". I wanted to try to capture
these memories I hadn't thought about in a long time, and what better
place to do that than my public diary :)

`1984`_
-------
*George Orwell*

`The DaVinci Code`_
-------------------
*Dan Brown*

`Fifty Shades of Grey`_
-----------------------
*E.L. James*

`Gone Girl`_
------------
*Gillian Flynn*

`The Grapes of Wrath`_
----------------------
*John Steinbeck*

`The Great Gatsby`_
-------------------
*F Scott Fitzgerald*

I read this twice in high school, and both times could not understand
why it was so famous. It seemed so *boring* at the time, and I didn't
like Daisy or Gatsby or even Nick. I didn't understand what motivated
them, or why they didn't just fess up to their love and hook up
already. Reading it as an adult I had a huge "Aha!" moment. The
glamour! The parties! Forbidden, old loves that cannot be! This is
romance and celebrity and everything I want in a book. I also remember
*hating* the line "I hope she'll be a foolâ€”that's the best thing a
girl can be in this world, a beautiful little fool". I didn't
understand it at all -- not just in a modern feminist "Girls can be so
much more!" spirit but in a "Why would you want your daughter to be
foolish" way. Intelligence has always been a central part of my
identity and sense of worth, and I couldn't imagine a life without
that much less wishing that life on my daughter. I completely get it
now though: ignorance is bliss, maybe the only way to be blissful, and
Daisy wants her daughter to be loved and blithely happy in a society
that doesn't value intelligent women. 

`Harry Potter`_
---------------

Oh, Harry Potter. I've already `waxed poetic`_ about my love for the
series, so won't go on about it here. But I remember going to the
midnight release party at Barnes and Noble for the 4th book with my
best friend and little brother, all of us dressed like wizards, and
staying up all night reading the book once it was in our hands. I
remember sneaking into a midnight showing of the second movie with my
mom, 


PS. In case you thought I'd only read 5 of America's greatest books,
here's the complete list that I've read:

* 
